Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Journal of Advanced Research 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/jare 
Evaluating current status of network pharmacology for herbal medicine 
focusing on identifying mechanisms and therapeutic effects 
Won-Yung Lee a,b,c,1 , 
a School of Korean Medicine, Wonkwang University, Iksan 54538, Republic of Korea 
b Research Center of Traditional Korean Medicine, Wonkwang University, Iksan 54538, Republic of Korea 
c School of Korean Medicine, Woosuk University, Jeonju 54986, Republic of Korea 
Kwang-Il Park d,1 , 
d Department of Veterinary Medicine, Research Institute of Life Science, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 52828, Republic of Korea 
Seon-Been Bak e,f,1 , 
e School of Korean Medicine, Dongguk University, Gyeongju 38066, Republic of Korea 
f Department of Nutritional Science and Food Management, Ewha Womans University, Seoul 03760, Republic of Korea 
Seungho Lee c,1 , Su-Jin Bae a , Min-Jin Kim e , 
Sun-Dong Park e , Choon Ok Kim g , 
g Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Severance Hospital, Yonsei University Health System, Seoul 03722, Republic of Korea 
Ji-Hwan Kim h , 
h School of Korean Medicine, Pusan National University, Yangsan-si 50612, Republic of Korea 
Young Woo Kim e,⇑, Chang-Eop Kim i,⇑ 
i School of Korean Medicine, Gachon University, Seongnam 13110, Republic of Korea 
h  i  g  h  l  i g h t s
Essential mechanisms of herbal 
compounds are precisely identiﬁed 
and thoroughly analyzed. 
Rigorous evaluation of consistency 
across various network pharmacology 
databases is conducted. 
The choice of database is shown to 
signiﬁcantly impact the 
understanding of known 
mechanisms. 
Advanced analytical techniques are 
demonstrated to be crucial for 
elucidating key mechanisms. 
The therapeutic potential of speciﬁc 
herbs in treating prostate cancer is 
validated in vitro and in vivo. 
a  r  t  i  c  l  e  i n f o
Article history: 
Received 5 July 2024 
Revised 5 December 2024 
Accepted 24 December 2024 
Available online 25 December 2024 
Keywords: 
Network pharmacology 
Herbal medicine 
Comprehensive evaluation 
Therapeutic mechanisms 
g  r  a  p  h  i  c  a  l  a b s t r a c t
a  b  s  t  r  a  c  t  
Introduction: Network pharmacology has gained signiﬁcant traction as a tool for identifying the mecha-
nisms and therapeutic effects of herbal medicines. However, despite the usefulness of these approaches, 
their diversity underscores the critical need for a systematic evaluation to ensure consistency and relia-
bility. 
Objectives: We aimed to evaluate the network pharmacological analyses, focusing on identifying the 
mechanisms and therapeutic effects of herbal medicines. 
Methods: We employed a comprehensive approach involving systematic data retrieval, network con-
struction, and analysis. Herbal compounds and their targets were meticulously extracted from ﬁve dis-
tinct network pharmacology databases to ensure extensive coverage and high data reliability. 
Advanced network-based methods were used to identify key herbal targets and predict therapeutic 
effects, thereby enriching the depth and breadth of the analysis. Experimental validation was performed 
on prostate cancer models to substantiate the computational predictions.
⇑ Corresponding authors at: School of Korean Medicine, Gachon University, Seongnam 13110, Republic of Korea. 
E-mail addresses: ywk@dongguk.ac.kr (Y.W. Kim), eopchang@gachon.ac.kr (C.-E. Kim). 
1 These authors contributed equally to this work. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jare.2024.12.040 
2090-1232/© 2024 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Cairo University. 
This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Introduction 
Herbal medicine, a common intervention in traditional Asian 
medicine, is used to treat a wide spectrum of diseases and patho-
logical symptoms. Beyond its historical applications, it serves as 
a valuable source for novel drug discovery, demonstrating its 
potential in combating conditions such as COVID-19 and cancer 
[1,2,3,4]. However, despite their rich history and potential, the 
application of herbal medicines is often based on empirical knowl-
edge, and many of their mechanisms remain elusive. One of the 
primary reasons for this limitation is their complex nature, com-
prising multiple compounds that act on multiple targets [5,6].  To  
address this complexity, researchers have adopted a network phar-
macology approach that explores the relationship between drugs 
and diseases within the context of a biological network [7,8]. Con-
sequently, network pharmacology (NP), by elucidating intricate 
interactions and mechanisms, has become a pivotal tool in this 
ﬁeld, witnessing exponential growth in research over the past 
decade. 
Recent studies have sought to elucidate the mechanisms of 
action of herbal medicines using NP. Lee et al. delved into method-
ological trends in this analysis, identifying dominant databases 
(DBs) and observing their evolution over time [9]. Zhang et al. pro-
vided a comprehensive summary of the tools and DBs speciﬁcally 
employed for NP studies, including a comparison of the general 
statistics of herbal medicines across DBs [10]. Wang et al. show-
cased a method crafted by their research team for such analyses 
and detailed its progression over the years [11]. Despite these 
efforts, the practical utility of these analyses remains undeter-
mined due to a lack of quantitative evaluation of the methods used 
for network pharmacological analyses. Without a standardized 
approach, the results from different studies can manifest signiﬁ-
cant variances, thereby causing inconsistencies in conclusions 
and potential misinterpretations in the application of herbal med-
icines. This highlights the pressing need for a systematic assess-
ment of NP methods speciﬁc to herbal medicine research. 
In this study, we systematically evaluated network pharmaco-
logical analyses of herbal medicines, focusing on their mechanisms 
and therapeutic effects. Here, we describe the characteristics of 
network construction methods across various DBs and their appli-
cations in deciphering their mechanisms and therapeutic effects. 
Subsequently, we evaluated the consistency of these network con-
struction methods to assess the potential disparities in the repre-
sentation of herbal ingredients and their target information 
across different DBs. Our analysis then explored the capacity to 
recapitulate the known targets of herbal medicines according to 
data sources and methods. We comprehensively assessed which 
network-based approaches were beneﬁcial for classifying both 
the known and undiscovered therapeutic effects of herbal medi-
cines. Finally, experimental validation was conducted on prostate 
cancer, which emerged as a prioritized result with therapeutic 
importance. This study sheds light on the current state of network 
pharmacological analysis techniques and their relevance to herbal 
medicine. 
800
Results: The results of the recapitulating task for known herbal ingredient targets revealed distinct pat-
terns in performance and coverage based on network construction and aggregation methods. We per-
formed the same analysis to identify herbal targets and found that network centrality, path counts, 
and downweighted path counts had their own pros and cons. By comparing network-based methods, 
we found that considering the impact on the multiscale interactome yielded the highest accuracy in dis-
criminating known therapeutic effects. Using optimal conditions, we successfully identiﬁed new indica-
tions for herbal medicines and validated these ﬁndings through follow-up in vitro and in vivo 
experiments. 
Conclusion: This study presents the ﬁrst comprehensive and critical evaluation of the current network 
pharmacology analyses in the ﬁeld of herbal medicine and provides valuable guidance for continued 
advances in the elucidation of the mechanisms and therapeutic effects.
© 2024 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Cairo University. This is an open access article under the CC 
BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Methods 
Herb-compound-target network construction 
Data retrieval of herbal compounds and their corresponding 
target information was performed using ﬁve representative NP-
DBs: TCMSP [12], TCM-mesh [13], BATMAN-TCM [14], SymMap 
[15], and HERB [16]. For TCMSP, TCM-mesh, and BATMAN-TCM, 
data were directly retrieved from each DB using the available 
resources provided. The HERB database provides both mining data 
from other databases and known therapeutic effect data. In this 
study, we used the mining data from HERB, which will be referred 
to as HERB (mining), while the known therapeutic effect data will 
be discussed in subsequent sections. For SymMap and HERB, com-
pound information for herbs and target information for com-
pounds were obtained using API calls in combination with 
Python’s ‘‘requests” module based on a cross-reference ID table 
organized by individual entities. 
An ID mapping process was then conducted on the assembled 
dataset to ensure consistency in the herb, compound, and target 
nomenclature across diverse data sources. Herbal names were 
mapped based on the cross-ID table provided by the HERB DB. This 
process was initially curated by the ﬁrst author and further vali-
dated through a comprehensive review by the corresponding 
author, both of whom are licensed Korean medicine doctors with 
PhDs in herbal prescription. Subsequently, the compounds and tar-
gets were mapped to PubChem Compound IDs (CIDs) and Entrez 
Gene IDs using cross-reference ID tables from each database and 
the NCBI Gene DB, respectively. In the subsequent stages of analy-
sis, only the data that were successfully mapped with these IDs 
(CIDs for compounds and Entrez Gene IDs for targets) were uti-
lized. This strategy ensured the use of a consistent identiﬁcation 
system across all data used in subsequent analyses. 
Multiscale interactome 
The multiscale interactome is a network of interactions among 
proteins, between proteins and biological functions, and among 
biological functions themselves. The multiscale interactome used 
in this study was obtained from the data built by Ruiz et al. [17]. 
For protein–protein interactions (PPIs), they assembled 387,626 
physical interactions between 17,660 proteins from seven major 
databases, including the Biological General Repository for Interac-
tion Datasets, Database of Interacting Proteins, and Human Refer-
ence Protein Interactome Mapping Project. For protein-biological 
function interactions, they compiled 34,777 associations between


7,993 proteins and 6,387 biological functions from the Gene Ontol-
ogy (human version). For biological-biological functional interac-
tions, 
they 
constructed 
a 
hierarchy 
of 
biological 
functions 
consisting of 22,545 associations and 9,798 biological functions. 
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Known targets and therapeutic effects of herbs and compounds 
The known targets and therapeutic effects of herbs and com-
pounds were identiﬁed using the HERB DB. The known targets 
are referred to as HERB (paper) in this study. This DB provides 
manually curated data on known targets and therapeutic effects 
associated with herbs and herbal compounds. During data extrac-
tion, we retrieved reference IDs from the HERB DB, which con-
tained data related to known targets and therapeutic effects. The 
Python ‘‘requests” module was employed to retrieve references 
sequentially [18]. This allowed the collation of information per-
taining to experimentally validated targets, denoted as ’paper-
mined target genes’ and ’paper-mined diseases’. The same proce-
dure was performed to retrieve related proteins from the obtained 
disease list. After data extraction, our data comprised 2,403 
compound-target interactions (CTIs) between 219 compounds 
and 875 targets, 256 herb-target interactions between 36 herbs 
and 182 targets, and 267,924 disease-protein associations between 
320 diseases and 8,777 proteins. 
Evaluation of NP-DB consistency 
The consistency among NP-DBs was evaluated using the recall 
metric. Recall is a measure designed to assess the uncommonness 
of the observed similarities. Speciﬁcally, for NP-DBs consistency 
analysis, a recall metric was used to evaluate the similarity of the 
same herbs or compounds across different DBs compared with 
the similarity within each DB [19]. This can be determined by cal-
culating the proportion of similarity values in a reference distribu-
tion that is lower than the similarity value of the same object 
measured in another DB. The reference distribution is composed 
of Pearson’s correlation distribution for all entities in the DB whose 
similarity to a particular object is to be measured. Pearson’s corre-
lation coefﬁcient was calculated using one-hot encoding vectors to 
indicate the presence or absence of herbal compounds and their 
interactions with target compounds. High recall values correspond 
to higher-than-expected similarity values, providing an assess-
ment of how well a particular pair of herbs or compounds matches 
relative to an appropriate null distribution. 
Identifying key targets of herbs 
Network centrality, simple path count (PC), and degree-
weighted pathcount (DWPC) are commonly used methods for 
identify key targets of herbs. Network centrality, also called topo-
logical analysis, refers to the calculation of each target’s centrality 
in a subnetwork built based on PPIs between targets in a particular 
herb [20,21]. Entities exhibiting high centrality are usually consid-
ered key targets. Network centrality measures typically include 
degree, betweenness, and closeness centralities. Degree centrality 
quantiﬁes the number of direct connections maintained by a node 
within a network. Betweenness centrality estimates the extent to 
which a node functions as a bridge or broker in a network. Close-
ness centrality measures the proximity of a node to all other nodes 
within the network. Centrality measures were calculated using the 
following equations. 
Degreecentrality v 
deg v 
where 
denotes a speciﬁc node and 
represents the 
number of edges connected to node 
801
Betweennesscentrality v
s–v–t 
rst v 
rst 
where 
and 
refer to nodes in the network distinct from v, 
denotes the number of shortest paths from node s to node t, and 
denotes the number of shortest paths from node 
to node 
that pass-through node 
Closenesscentrality v
1 
ud u v 
where u indicates a node in the network and 
signiﬁes the 
shortest path distance from node v to node u. 
PC refers to the number of paths of a speciﬁed metapath 
between the source and target nodes. However, PC does not adjust 
to the extent of graph connectivity along the path. Paths traversing 
high-degree nodes account for a large portion of PC, even though 
high-degree nodes often represent biologically broad or vague 
entities with limited informativeness. Consequently, relying solely 
on PC may lead to skewed interpretations, potentially overlooking 
speciﬁc and biologically relevant interactions owing to the domi-
nance of high-degree nodes. 
The DWPC algorithm mitigates the overrepresentation of high-
degree nodes in PC calculations, thereby addressing the potential 
limitation of the PC method [22]. The DWPC algorithm originally 
downweights each path between a source and target node by cal-
culating the path degree product (PDP) as follows: 
1. Extracting all metaedge-speciﬁc degrees along the path 
, 
where each edge contributing to the path adds two degrees. 
2. Raise each degree to the negative 
power, where 
and 
serves as the damping exponent. 
3. Multiplying all exponentiated degrees to generate the PDP. 
In this method, we separated the damping parameter w into 
two distinct parameters, 
and 
which apply to degrees pre-
sent in the herb-compound path and compound-target path, 
respectively. Consequently, when raising each degree to a negative 
power, we employed 
for degrees along the herb-compound 
path and 
for degrees along the compound-target path. The 
modiﬁed PDP and DWPC values were calculated as follows: 
PDP path 
dHC DpathHC 
d 
wHC 
HC 
dCT DpathCT 
d 
wCT 
CT 
where 
and 
refer to the paths between the herb-
compound pair and compound-target pair, 
and 
denote 
the node degrees of 
and 
and 
and 
refer to 
the damping parameters of 
and 
respectively. 
DWPC h t 
path Paths h t 
PDP path 
where 
refers to the herb, 
denotes the target, and 
refer 
to the paths between h and 
This modiﬁcation allowed us to adjust the weighting of each 
path type individually, thereby providing a more precise represen-
tation of the network structure. 
Network-based methods for identifying therapeutic effects 
Three network-based approaches were employed to predict the 
therapeutic effects of the herbal compounds and herbs: protein 
overlap, network proximity, and multiscale interactome. Protein 
overlap is based on the idea that ingredients with overlapping tar-
gets and disease-related proteins are likely to exert therapeutic 
effects. This can be calculated using the Jaccard Similarity between 
the set of drug targets T and the set of disease proteins S:
v 
deg v 
v. 
s 
t 
rst 
s 
t 
rst v 
v. 
d u v 
(Dpath)
w 
w 
0 
wHC 
wCT, 
wHC 
wCT 
DpathHC 
DpathCT 
dHC 
dCT 
wHC 
wCT 
DpathHC 
DpathCT , 
DpathHC 
DpathCT , 
h 
t 
Paths h t 
t.


Performance measure
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
T 
S 
T 
S 
Network proximity is based on the principle that the closer the 
targets of a compound are to disease proteins in a human PPI net-
work, the more likely it is that the compound will affect the disease 
phenotype [23]. It is obtained by calculating the relative score of 
the shortest path length between the drug and disease based on 
the reference distribution. Let T be the set of drug targets and S 
be the set of disease proteins, where t 
T and s 
S represent 
the individual targets and proteins, respectively. d(s, t) denotes 
the shortest path length between nodes s and t in a network. Net-
work proximity ﬁrst computes the average closest distance
between disease-associated proteins and ingredient targets as 
follows: 
dc S T 
1 
T
t T mins Sd  s  t
Next, a reference distance distribution is constructed using the 
values of 
when S and T are randomly permuted into 1000 
sets of proteins that match the size and degrees of the original dis-
ease proteins and targets in the network. Finally, the relative score 
is computed by taking the z-score of 
with respect to the ref-
erence distribution: 
Zdc 
dc 
ldc S T 
rdc S T 
where
and
denote the mean and standard 
deviation of the reference distribution, respectively. 
Multiscale interactome models compare the impact of drug 
treatment and disease perturbation on a network that integrates 
interactions between proteins and biological functions [17]. It pre-
dicts the disease association of drugs and natural products by cal-
culating the diffusion proﬁle 
and then measures the 
correlation distance between them. A diffusion proﬁle is computed 
through a matrix formulation with a power iteration as follows: 
r k 1 
1 
a s 
a r k M 
s 
j J 
r k 
j 
where 
denotes the diffusion proﬁles at k-th state
denotes 
the probability of the walker continuing its walk at a given step 
rather than restarting
denotes a restart vector that sets 
the probability that the walker will jump to each node after a 
restart, and 
denotes a biased transition matrix derived from a 
directed multiscale interactome and set of scalar weights that 
encode the relative likelihood. 
These procedures are repeated until the convergence of the 
power iteration computation is as follows: 
r k 1 
r k 
1 
e 
where
denotes the tolerance parameter and was set to 
which is the same value as that in the previous study 
[17]. 
The correlation distance of drug and disease diffusion proﬁle is 
calculated as follows: 
1 
r c 
r c
r d 
r d 
r c 
r c 
2 
r d 
r d 
2 
where r(c) and r(d) denote the diffusion proﬁles of the drug and 
disease, respectively. 
802
Performance evaluation was conducted under two main scenar-
ios within our study. First, we assessed whether the predicted tar-
gets of herbs or compounds derived from network construction 
and analyses corresponded to the known targets. Second, it was 
used to evaluate the predictive performance of known therapeutic 
effects based on the targets of herbs or compounds using various 
methods. 
The choice of the evaluation metric depended on the nature of 
the predicted outcomes. For binary predictions (i.e., the interaction 
between targets and herbs/compounds or predictions based on the 
percentile threshold of network centrality or PC), we used metrics 
such as the Matthews Correlation Coefﬁcient (MCC), precision, cov-
erage, and recall. These values were calculated using the following 
formulae: 
MCC 
TP 
TN 
FP 
FN 
TP 
FP
TP 
FN
TN 
FP
TN 
FN 
Precision 
TP 
TP 
FP 
Coverage 
TP 
TP 
FN 
Recall 
TP 
TP 
FN 
where TP represents true positives, TN represents true negatives, FP 
represents false positives, and FN represents false negatives. 
For continuous predictions (i.e., predictions about known herbs 
based on DWPC or prediction scores for the therapeutic effects of 
known herbs/compounds), performance was evaluated using the 
Area Under the Receiver Operating Characteristic curve (AUROC) 
and Area Under the Precision-Recall curve (AUPR). These metrics 
provide an overall measure of prediction performance, balancing 
the trade-off between sensitivity and speciﬁcity for AUROC and 
precision and recall for AUPR. 
Chemicals and reagents 
Anti-Bcl-2, anti-Bax, anti-Cdk2, anti-Cdk6, anti-p19, anti-p21, 
and anti-p27 antibodies were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotech-
nology (Dallas, TX). Anti-Mcl-1, anti-caspase-3, anti-PARP, anti-
STAT3, anti-Cyclin D1, and anti-b-actin were purchased from Cell 
Signaling Technology (Danvers, MA). HRP-conjugated anti-rabbit 
IgG and anti-mouse IgG antibodies were acquired from Enzo Life 
Sciences (Farmingdale, NY). 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diph 
enyl-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) and crystal violet solution were 
purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO). Annexin V/propid-
ium iodide was purchased from BD Bioscience (San Jose, CA). Puer-
ariae Radix (PR), Lithospermum Erythrorhizon (LE), and Granati 
Fructus (GF) are medicinal herbs certiﬁed by the Korea FDA and 
were sourced from an hGMP facility (Nonglim Saengyak, Seoul, 
KOREA). The extracts of these herbs were prepared according to 
previously described methods [24]. 
Cell lines and cell culture 
PC3 and LNCap cells (obtained from the American Type Culture 
Collection, Rockville, MD) were cultured in RPMI 1640 medium 
supplemented with 10% fetal bovine serum, 50 lg/mL strepto-
, dc s t , 
dc S T 
dc s t 
ldc S T 
rdc S T 
r 
R V 
r k 
, a 
, s 
R V 
M 
e 
1 
10 6 , 


mycin, and 50 units/mL penicillin. The cells were cultured at 37 °C 
with 5% CO2 in a humidiﬁed atmosphere. 
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Animal housing and xenograft experiments 
Six-week-old male BALB/c nude mice (18–20 g) were purchased 
from Samtako Inc. (Osan, Republic of Korea). Mice were housed at 
22 ± 3 °C and 54% ± 5% relative humidity conditions in a 12/12h 
light and dark-controlled room (light: 7:00–19:00h, dark: 19:00– 
7:00h). The mice were provided ad libitum access to rodent food 
and water. All experimental animal procedures were approved by 
the Gyeongsang National University Institutional Animal Care 
and Use Committee (GNU-240228-M0048) and conducted in 
accordance with the guidelines of the National Institutes of Health 
(NIH publication). 
PC3 cells were grown to 80% conﬂuence and harvested for xeno-
graft experiments. The cells were resuspended in phosphate-
buffered saline at a concentration of 2 
107 cells/ml. Each mouse, 
aged 7 weeks, was subcutaneously injected with 1 mL of the cell 
suspension on the left side. The mice were grouped and allowed 
for the tumors to grow to a target volume of 200 mm3 . Upon reach-
ing 200 mm3 tumor volume, the drug group was orally adminis-
tered PR, LE, and GF at doses of 500 and 1500 mg/kg/body 
weight three times a week for 15 days. Each control group was 
orally administered with (vehicle) and the positive control group 
was intraperitoneally injected with 8 mg/kg/day doxorubicin three 
times a week. Tumor growth and inhibition were measured daily 
using digital calipers. Tumor volume was calculated using the fol-
lowing formula: tumor volume (mm3 ) = tumor diameter 
short 
diameter2/2. At the end of the animal experiment (15 days), the 
mice were sacriﬁced, and the tumors were dissected. 
Cell proliferation/viability assay 
PC3 and LNCaP cells were cultured in a 48-well plate at a den-
sity of 5 
103 cells per well for 24h. Subsequently, PR, LE, and FPG 
were each treated at various concentrations for 24, 48, and 72h. 
Following the incubation period, MTT treatment was conducted 
for 2 h at 37 °C. After incubation, the medium was removed, and 
300 lL of DMSO was added to each well to dissolve the formazan 
crystals. Absorbance was determined at 570 nm using an ELISA 
microplate reader (Agilent Technologies, Santa Clara, California). 
Clonogenic assay 
PC3 and LNCaP cells were plated in a 6-well plate at a density of 
1 
103 cells per well and treated with PR, LE, or FPG for 24h. Sub-
sequently, the medium was replaced with drug-free medium, and 
the cells were cultured for an additional 8 days. After an 8-day 
incubation period, the medium was suctioned, and the cells were 
ﬁxed with 4% formalin. The ﬁxed cells were stained with 1% crystal 
violet solution and air-dried at room temperature. 
Flow cytometry 
PC3 and LNCaP cells were plated in a 6-well plate at a density of 
1 
105 cells per well for 24h. Subsequently, PR, LE, and FPG were 
administered to the cells at speciﬁed concentrations for 72h, fol-
lowed by cell harvesting using trypsin. The cells were stained with 
Annexin V/propidium iodide (BD Biosciences, San Jose, CA) accord-
ing to the manufacturer’s instructions. The stained cells were 
assessed using an Accuri C6 ﬂow cytometer (Accuri Cytometers 
Inc., Ann Arbor, MI) and 10,000 events were recorded. 
803
Immunoblot analysis 
PC3 and LNCaP cells were plated in a 60Ø dish at a concentra-
tion of 3 
105 cells. Subsequently, PR, LE, and FPG were adminis-
tered at speciﬁed concentrations for 72h. Cell lysates were 
prepared using RIPA buffer at 4 °C, and protein quantiﬁcation of 
the lysates was performed using a BCA assay kit (Thermo Fisher 
Scientiﬁc Inc., Waltham, MA). The quantiﬁed proteins were sepa-
rated by sodium dodecyl sulfate–polyacrylamide gel electrophore-
sis and subsequently transferred onto a PVDF membrane. After 
sequentially attaching primary and secondary antibodies to the 
transferred membrane, chemiluminescent signals were captured 
using a ChemiDoc image analyzer (Vilber Lourmat, France). 
Scratch wound healing assay 
PC3 and LNCaP cells were incubated in a 24-well plate until 
they reached approximately 90% conﬂuency. Subsequently, a 
wound (a mono line) was created by scratching the surface using 
a 200 lL pipette tip. The process of co-culturing cells with PR, LE, 
or FPG at speciﬁed concentrations for 72h was observed using an 
automated microscope (BioTek Lionheart, Winooski, VT). 
Statistical analysis 
Statistical analyses of in vitro and in vivo experiments were per-
formed by checking the normal distribution of the data and consid-
ering the number of groups under investigation. For two-sample 
evaluations, normality was assessed using the Shapiro–Wilk test. 
Subsequently, a two-tailed Student’s t-test was conducted for pair-
wise comparison of groups exhibiting a normal distribution, 
whereas the Mann–Whitney U test was used when the normality 
assumption was not met. Similarly, for comparisons involving mul-
tiple groups, normality was ﬁrst examined using the Shapiro–Wilk 
test. Datasets conforming to a normal distribution were then ana-
lyzed using one-way ANOVA coupled with Dunnett’s test; in 
instances where normality was not observed, the Kruskal–Wallis 
ANOVA with Dunn’s post hoc test was applied. In cases where 
the effects of different treatments and their interactions were eval-
uated, two-way ANOVA was employed. This method accounted for 
the variability between different treatment groups and the interac-
tion effects of combined treatments. The criteria for establishing 
statistical signiﬁcance were set at p < 0.05 or p < 0.01. 
Results 
Overview of network construction and analysis 
NP-DBs are primary resources for constructing networks of her-
bal medicines. They offer comprehensive information about the 
compounds and targets of herbal medicines, enabling researchers 
to build networks of speciﬁc herbal medicines. In this section, we 
summarize the network construction and analysis methods pro-
vided by representative NP-DBs: TCMSP, BATMAN-TCM, TCM-
Mesh, SymMap, and HERB (Table 1. These DBs facilitate NP analysis 
of individual herbs, which many researchers have utilized and 
cited in their studies. These DBs also provide raw ﬁles or APIs, facil-
itating large-scale analyses.
Network pharmacological analysis of herbal medicines usually 
begins with the construction of herb-compound networks. Most 
NP-DBs contain ingredient information from databases such as 
TCMID [25] and TCM-ID (Table 1). NP-DBs typically assign a unique 
ID to each compound and provide the corresponding PubChem CID. 
This aids researchers in identifying the properties of compounds 
and mapping additional information for subsequent analyses.


Notably, TCMSP offers data on drug-likeness (DL) and predicted 
oral bioavailability (OB) of compounds, enhancing the ability to 
screen potential bioactive compounds [26]. Approximately one-
third of the pertinent studies employed compounds surpassing 
the suggested thresholds (i.e., drug-likeness and oral bioavailabil-
ity above 0.18 and 0.3, respectively) for their analyses [27,28]. 
These thresholds were used to maximize bioactive compound 
extraction while maintaining a manageable number of candidates 
[29]. This information was integrated into SymMap and HERB for a 
comprehensive overview of herbal medicine bioavailability. 
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Table 1 
Description, statistics, and methods of representative databases that provide network pharmacological analysis for herbal medicines. H-C: herb-compound associations, C-T: 
compound-target associations. *Prediction method. 
H-C
C-T 
A system pharmacology platform that 
provides information on ingredients, 
targets, and diseases of herbal 
medicines. 
499 herbs, 29,384 
ingredients, 3,311 
targets 
Drugbank, HIT, and 
SysDT* 
TCMSP (2014)
Literature search
tcmsp-e.com/ 
tcmsp.php 
(24735618) 
8,159 herbs, 25,210 
ingredients, 14,298 
targets 
BATMAN-TCM (2016)
A bioinformatics analysis tool for 
molecular mechanisms of TCM 
TCMID
DrugBank, KEGG, TTD, 
and Similarity score* 
bionet.ncpsb. 
org.cn/batman-
tcm 
(26879404) 
6,235 herbs, 383,840 
ingredients, 14,298 
targets 
TCM-mesh (2017)
A system for providing network 
pharmacological analysis for TCM 
TCMID
STITCH
bionet.ncpsb. 
org.cn/batman-
tcm 
(28588237) 
698 herbs, 25,975 
ingredients, 20,965 
targets 
HIT, TCMSP, HPO, 
DrugBank, and NCBI 
databases 
TCMID, TCMSP, and TCM-
ID 
SymMap (2019)
An integrative database of TCM 
enhanced by symptom mapping 
symmap.org 
(30380087) 
7,263 herbs, 28,212 
ingredients, 12,933 
targets 
SymMap, TCMID 2.0, 
TCMSP 2.3, and TCM-ID 
et al. 
HERB (2021)
A high-throughput experiment- and 
reference-guided database of TCM 
SymMap, HIT, TCMSP, 
and TCMID 
herb.ac.cn 
(33264402)
The subsequent phase of network construction involved identi-
fying the targets of compounds found in the herbal medicines 
(Fig. 1A). The sources of target information for herbal compounds 
can be broadly categorized into two primary types: experimentally 
validated and predicted. Databases such as the Herbal Ingredient 
Target [30,31] and DrugBank [32] are typically employed to gather 
experimentally validated targets; they house information curated 
manually from the literature based on in vitro or biochemical 
experimental results. However, a potential limitation of this 
approach is the sparse nature of data on these experimentally val-
idated targets. Relying solely on these targets limits the scope of 
herbal medicine analysis. Thus, NP-DBs provide predictive target 
information for herbal medicine components using various meth-
ods. For instance, Yu et al. proposed the SysDT model [33] to fore-
cast CTIs using both known and unknown compound-target 
associations alongside protein and compound descriptors. TCMSP 
uses this model to predict the targets of Chinese medicinal ingredi-
ents. Liu et al. introduced a CTI prediction technique based on com-
pound and target similarity scores [34]. BATMAN-TCM employs 
this method to identify the targets of herbal medicinal ingredients. 
TCM-Mesh curates the target data of herbal medicine components 
by incorporating information from STITCH [35], which aggregates 
scores from various sources, including experiments, predictions, 
DB consultations, and text mining.
The constructed network was analyzed to uncover the key 
mechanisms of action of the herbs. To identify key targets, 
researchers often construct protein–protein interaction (PPI) sub-
networks by mapping herbal medicine targets onto the global PPI 
network (Fig. 1B). Within these target-speciﬁc PPI subnetworks, 
network centrality analysis is performed to identify hub nodes that 
play central and signiﬁcant roles in the network structure, assum-
ing these are key targets of herbal medicines [36]. Typically, 
researchers measure various properties such as degree centrality, 
closeness centrality, and betweenness centrality, which indicate 
the importance of nodes in a network. Targets exhibiting centrality 
values above certain thresholds are usually considered key targets. 
PC analysis, similar to degree analysis, assumes that targets with 
overlapping interactions with ingredients are likely to be key tar-
gets [37,38]. This analysis allows for the consideration of the 
cumulative effects of herbal compounds on the targets. It computes 
the number of PCs from the herbs to the targets and selects those 
where the number exceeds a certain threshold, such as the median 
value. However, a potential limitation is treating all path counts 
(PCs) equally, regardless of whether they originate from common 
ingredients or those with numerous targets. High-degree nodes 
often represent biologically general or nonspeciﬁc entities, offering 
limited speciﬁc information [22]. Therefore, downweighting PCs 
associated with high-degree nodes can reﬁne the analysis, poten-
tially 
leading 
to 
a 
more 
accurate 
understanding 
of 
key 
mechanisms. 
804
Network-based approaches also play a crucial role in leveraging 
the identiﬁed herbal targets to identify the therapeutic effects of 
herbal medicines. The principal or promising approaches among 
the network-based methods include protein overlap, network 
proximity, and multiscale interactome approaches (Fig. 1C). Pro-
tein overlap is based on the hypothesis that herbal medicines that 
share targets in speciﬁc diseases exhibit therapeutic efﬁcacy [39]. 
Network proximity hypothesizes that herbal medicines with tar-
gets close to the disease proteins in the network exert therapeutic 
effects [23]. Network proximity employs z-scores to quantify the 
relative closeness of herbal targets to diseased proteins by compar-
ing the observed distances with the distribution of distances from 
randomly selected proteins. The multiscale interactome refers to a 
network consisting of physical interactions between proteins and a 
hierarchy of biological functions [17]. One study found that simu-
lating the propagation of a compound or disease on a multiscale 
interactome demonstrated state-of-the-art performance in pre-
dicting therapeutic effects and uncovered key mechanisms. Using 
this framework, Bak et al. successfully identiﬁed the active com-
pounds in Bupleuri Radix and their key mechanisms against oxida-
tive liver injury [40]. 
Consistency analysis across NP-DBs 
We explored the characteristics and discrepancies of the ingre-
dients and target information within the NP-DBs. We ﬁrst mea-


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
sured the MCC values between known targets and those available 
in each DB, building on the herb and herbal ingredient analyses 
described in the previous section. Our analysis focused on 42 com-
monly used herbs in the East Asian region, each containing at least 
three ingredients, along with 36 herbal ingredients for which tar-
get information is available in all NP-DBs. This selection criterion 
aimed to analyze herbal medicines commonly used in practice, 
addressing issues related to their practical utilization. We com-
pared the number of ingredients per herb across selected DBs 
and found that the average number of ingredients per herb was 
129.6 (Fig. 2A). Speciﬁcally, SymMap and HERB had higher counts,
Fig. 1. Analytical techniques utilized in network pharmacology analysis. (A) Compound-target prediction methods in network pharmacology database. Chemogenomic 
approach predicts interactions using vectors formed by concatenating the features of compounds and their targets. Ensemble approach relies on a combined score computed 
by ensembling scores derived from heterogeneous sources. Similarity score utilizes the maximum likelihood ratio based on various similarity scores for query compound-
target pairs. (B) Herb-target association identiﬁcation. Network centrality identiﬁes key targets within the target network by evaluating node percentiles for degree, 
closeness, and/or betweenness and selecting those surpassing a speciﬁc threshold. Pathcount threshold designates key targets based on the presence of a speciﬁed or greater 
number of paths from an herb to that target. Degree-weighted path count downweights the pathcount for compounds found in many herbs (herb-compound degree, dHC) and 
compounds with multiple targets (compound-target degree, dCT). The example on the right panel illustrates the computation of DWPC values for herb-target pairs enclosed 
within the box, using parameters wHc= 0.5 and wCT=  1.  (C) Compound-disease prediction methods. Protein overlap calculates the overlapping targets between herb targets and 
disease-related targets. Network proximity calculates the relative distance between herb targets and disease-related targets in protein–protein networks. Multiscale 
interactome measures the inﬂuence of disease or herb/compound targets on the multiscale interactome and then calculates the distance between them.
805
whereas BATMAN-TCM, TCM-Mesh, and HIT had fewer ingredi-
ents. We also identiﬁed 80 common ingredients across all DBs, 
whereas 903 ingredients were unique to speciﬁc DBs (Supplemen-
tary Fig. 1). To assess the impact of these frequency discrepancies, 
we performed consistency analysis by calculating the relative 
ranking of correlations for the same herb across different DBs. This 
analysis presupposes that if ingredient information consistently 
appears across DBs for a speciﬁc herb, there should be a higher cor-
relation in the ingredient information for that herb than for differ-
ent herbs in separate DBs. We found that, notably, the only 
exceptions were all pairs involving the HIT DB; for all other pairs,


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 2. Characteristics and consistency of information across various network pharmacology databases. Herb-compound (upper ﬁgure) and compound-target (lower 
ﬁgure) characteristics by database. In each subﬁgure: the left panel displays the distribution of associations by database; the central panel highlights frequently occurring 
entities within the associations; and the right panel shows a correlation heatmap of herbs or ingredients between database pairs (lower triangle), paired with a distribution 
plot for recall percentiles (upper triangle). Within each correlation heatmap, the diagonal line represents the correlation values for the ingredients of identical herbs and the 
target information of the ingredients between the database pairs. Each distribution plot indicates the proportion of samples that achieved a recall value of 95% or higher.
806


the recall rate exceeded 90% in 10 out of 15 DB pairs. This suggests 
that the differences in herbal ingredient information across DBs 
may have a limited impact.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
We further explored whether a similar pattern existed in the 
target information for the selected ingredients. We counted the 
number of targets in the ingredients and found that even for the 
same ingredient groups, the number of targets varied signiﬁcantly 
between DBs (Fig. 2B). Although only 189 targets were consistently 
identiﬁed across all DBs, speciﬁc DBs offered up to 1,662 unique 
targets (Supplementary Fig. 2). For quantitative assessment, we 
performed a consistency analysis by computing the relative rank-
ings of correlations between ingredients across pairs of DBs. Nota-
bly, we observed low correlation values for the same ingredients 
across different DB pairs. Our recall analysis showed that, even 
when performing the same analysis, none of the DB pairs had a 
recall rate exceeding 90%. This indicates that the target information 
for the same ingredient can diverge, depending on the DB used for 
the analysis. Our ﬁndings highlight the urgent need for a compre-
hensive, large-scale analysis of NP-DBs. 
Impact of NP-DBs on recapitulating known mechanisms 
To evaluate the effectiveness of the target information provided 
by the NP-DBs, we conducted a recapitulation task focused on the 
known targets of herbs and their ingredients. Therefore, we 
grouped all ingredient-target and herb-target associations into 
known and unknown associations. Notably, the density of known 
associations was low (1.3% for ingredient-target and 3.8% for 
herb-target), and unknown associations also contained potentially 
positive samples. Although these conditions pose obstacles to 
accurate performance evaluation, they still provide valuable 
insights into the characteristics of the information source and anal-
ysis method. 
We ﬁrst measured MCC values between known targets and 
those available in each DB, based on the herb and herbal ingredient 
analyses described in the previous section. All DBs outperformed 
the chance level, with the TCM-Mesh achieving the highest score 
of 0.14 (Fig. 3A, upper panel). We also measured the coverage of 
each DB to predict ingredients with known targets. On average, 
the DBs achieved a coverage of 0.40, with HERB and SymMap nota-
bly standing out at 0.83 and 0.50, respectively. These ﬁndings indi-
cated that the reliability and coverage of herbal compounds 
exhibited unique patterns across different DBs.
We further analyzed the changes in recapitulation performance 
based on the combinations and aggregation methods across the 
NP-DBs (Fig. 3B, upper panel). Initially, we found that intersecting 
the target information from TCM-Mesh and HERB yielded the high-
est precision score (0.278). Among combinations with coverage 
greater than 0.5, uniting data from TCMSP, TCM-Mesh, SymMap, 
and HERB showed the best performance, with an MCC of 0.07. 
We observed minimal changes in performance when comparing 
union and intersection methods for aggregating target information, 
with all cases having an MCC of 0.06. However, when using the 
intersection method, we observed increased precision at the 
expense of reduced coverage, whereas the union approach yielded 
the opposite result. As the number of combined platforms 
increased, we observed a more pronounced tradeoff relationship 
between the MCC value and coverage. 
We extended the analysis to evaluate the performance of each 
NP-DB and their combinations in recapitulating known target 
information at the herb level. Our results demonstrated that all 
DBs maintained coverage exceeding half, while achieving a perfor-
mance that surpassed chance level (Fig. 3A, lower panel). Speciﬁ-
cally, the highest coverage and MCC values were observed when 
HERB was used. In contrast, TCMSP displayed the lowest values 
for both metrics. Like our ﬁndings at the ingredient level, we 
observed a tradeoff between precision and recall based on the 
aggregation method used for NP-DBs at the herb level (Fig. 3B, 
lower panel). Overall, our results highlighted that the methods 
and combination strategies employed to construct networks for 
herbal medicines can signiﬁcantly inﬂuence both predictive perfor-
mance and coverage. 
807
Inﬂuence of analytical techniques on recapitulating known 
mechanisms 
We then assessed how network analysis techniques inﬂuenced 
the recapitulation performance of known mechanisms in herbal 
targets. Initially, we explored whether PPI network analysis of 
the herbal targets could help elucidating these mechanisms. Sub-
networks were constructed with targets from each DB as nodes 
and known PPIs forming the edges. Subsequently, three types of 
network centrality (degree, betweenness, and closeness) were 
measured for each node. We then evaluated the recapitulating per-
formance while varying the percentile thresholds for network cen-
trality, classifying targets as ‘‘known” when they exceeded the 
threshold, and ‘‘unknown” otherwise. The results indicated that 
as the centrality score increased, the MCC values generally 
decreased across most DBs. This trend was particularly evident 
for BATMAN-TCM, TCM-Mesh, and HERB. However, SymMap and 
TCMSP showed tendencies for increased MCC values within certain 
centrality thresholds (0.4–0.8). Our ﬁndings indicate that the ben-
eﬁts of using network centrality analysis in target protein net-
works 
vary 
depending 
on 
the 
speciﬁc 
conditions 
and 
DB, 
suggesting that this approach may not always be the most effective 
for identifying core herbal targets. 
Next, we focused on variations in performance for recapitulat-
ing herbal targets based on path count (PC) percentile thresholds. 
Initially, we observed a continuous decline in the MCC value start-
ing from a PC threshold of 0.5 (Fig. 4B). However, precision exhib-
ited a slight increase within the 0.5–0.8 threshold range, while 
recall consistently decreased. Furthermore, we investigated how 
downweighting PCs, particularly those involving high-degree 
nodes, inﬂuenced the elucidation of key herbal targets. Using the 
DWPC algorithm, we performed the same analysis across a wide 
range of thresholds for the weight of the herb-ingredient path 
and ingredient-target path 
. We found that, as both 
the 
and 
thresholds increased, the AUROC values also gen-
erally increased (Fig. 4C). Speciﬁcally, our ﬁndings indicated that, 
except for the TCM-Mesh for 
and TCMSP for 
employing 
the DWPC algorithm to downweight PCs generally contributed to 
performance 
enhancement 
across 
most 
DBs 
(Supplementary 
Fig. 3). By exploring various combinations of weighting parame-
ters, we determined the optimal performance when 
and 
values were 1 and 0.4, respectively. By leveraging the optimal con-
ditions, we determined the DWPC percentile threshold to recapit-
ulate known herbal targets. Computing the DWPC percentiles for 
the selected herbal targets and assessing the MCC for each thresh-
old revealed that the 40% DWPC threshold consistently yielded the 
highest MCC values (Fig. 4D). These ﬁndings suggest that the her-
bal mechanisms can be identiﬁed more accurately by carefully 
considering the weight of the PC.
Evaluating the predictive performance of network models in 
therapeutic effects 
We further evaluated the utility of various network-based 
approaches to identify the therapeutic effects of herbal medicines. 
Three commonly used or potentially applicable methods, protein 
overlap, network proximity, and multiscale interactome, were con-
sidered. Using these methods, we calculated scores for all possible 
pairs of herbal ingredients and diseases, as well as those for herbs
(wHC) 
(wCT)
wHC 
wCT 
wHC 
wCT, 
wHC 
wCT 


and diseases (Fig. 5A). We then performed a discrimination task 
using these scores to distinguish between the known and unknown 
associations. Notably, similar to our previous tasks, the density of 
known disease associations was quite low; therefore, the perfor-
mance in this context might have been underestimated compared 
with real-world scenarios. Nonetheless, this approach was valuable 
for comparing the characteristics of each prediction method.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 3. Recapitulation performance for herbal compounds (upper ﬁgure) and herbs (lower ﬁgure) across different databases and combinations. (A) Distribution of 
recapitulating performance and coverage for known targets in compounds and herbs by database. (B) Distribution of performance in rediscovering known targets by platform 
combination methods and the number of platforms used in the combination.
We found that all network-based approaches outperformed 
chance level performances for both herbal ingredient-disease and 
herb-disease pairs (Fig. 5B). The protein overlap method yielded 
satisfactory 
AUROC 
and 
AUPR 
values. 
However, 
using 
this 
approach, only approximately one-third of the herbal medicine-
disease pairs yielded similarity scores greater than zero, leaving 
the majority of pairs unprioritized owing to a score of zero. This 
suggests that the protein overlap method may be limited in scope 
for discerning the therapeutic effects of herbal medicines and their 
ingredients. We also observed that the network proximity method 
produced lower AUROC and AUPR values compared to the other 
methods, suggesting that considering only closeness within a sim-
ple PPI network may not be sufﬁcient for discerning therapeutic 
effects. In contrast, the multiscale interactome method outper-
formed the other methods both AUROC and AUPR. This highlights 
the importance of considering PPIs and their relationships with 
biological functions when determining the therapeutic effects of 
herbal medicines. 
We analyzed performance distribution based on a combination 
of platforms and prediction methods (Fig. 5C). In most combina-
tions, we conﬁrmed that the performance surpassed chance level. 
Using known targets led to superior predictive outcomes for both 
the herbs and herbal ingredients. This suggests that, when sufﬁ-
cient data are available, relying solely on validated information is 
beneﬁcial. However, the other methods exhibited substantial per-
formance. HERB–multiscale interactome combination yielded the 
best performance for herbal ingredients, whereas SymMap–multi-
scale interactome combination was the most effective for herbs. 
Overall, these ﬁndings underscore that the predictive accuracy of 
the therapeutic effects of herbal medicines can vary based on the 
combination of network methods employed. 
808
Case study on determining the therapeutic effects of herbs 
We sought to validate whether the identiﬁed optimal datasets 
and conditions could help predicting the therapeutic effects of 
herbs in various diseases. Using the multiscale interactome 
approach on the paper target, which showed the highest perfor-
mance in predicting therapeutic effects, we prioritized the rela-
tionship between herbs and diseases. We discovered that nearly 
half (4 out of 10) of the prioritized herb-disease associations had 
already been reported (Table 2)). Furthermore, we explored 
whether the unreported associations among the prioritized results 
could indicate the potential therapeutic effects of the herbs. We 
chose to focus on prostate neoplasm because it is both a top-
predicted result and a disease of signiﬁcant therapeutic impor-
tance, with a rising prevalence and global impact. Given its rele-
vance, we explored the potential treatments and mechanisms of 
prostate cancer in detail. We conﬁrmed that PR and LE showed 
high correlation scores with prostate cancer, along with GF, which 
is included in the top 10 rankings, without any reported evidence. 
Despite their high rankings, these components have not yet been 
reported in literature, indicating a unique opportunity to uncover 
new therapeutic effects and mechanisms.
To assess the in vivo anticancer efﬁcacy of herbal extracts, we 
used a PC3 xenograft mouse model (Fig. 6A). Tumor volumes and 
body weights were measured daily to evaluate the effects of herbal 
extracts on tumor growth and overall health. We found that high 
doses of PR, LE, and GF signiﬁcantly suppressed tumor growth 
compared to the control group (Fig. 6A, upper panel). Tumor vol-
umes were measured daily using a digital caliper, and the data


reduced tumor growth and supported body weight in a PC3 xeno-
graft mouse model after oral administration.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 4. Performance distribution of herb-target associations based on network analysis methods. (A) Performance changes based on PPI network analysis of herb targets. 
Each plot represents the Matthews correlation coefﬁcient value for herb-target pairs exceeding a given centrality percentile threshold for known herb targets. (B) 
Performance distribution according to path count percentile. Each plot displays the distribution of the Matthews correlation coefﬁcient, precision, and recall between herb-
target pairs exceeding a speciﬁed path count percentile threshold and known herb-target pairs. (C) Performance variation based on downweighting of the herb-compound-
target network. The left plot depicts the AUROC value between the path count and known herb-target pairs as 
and 
vary. The right heatmap illustrates the average 
AUROC values for potential combinations of the downweighting parameters. (D) Performance variation according to downweighted path count percentile based on optimal 
conditions.
showed a clear reduction in tumor size in mice treated with high 
doses of the herbal extracts. Fig. 6A (lower panel) shows represen-
tative images of tumors from each treatment group, demonstrating 
visual differences in tumor size. Body weight changes were moni-
tored daily and expressed as percentages relative to day 1 (Fig. 6A, 
middle panel). High doses of PR, LE, and GF mitigated body weight 
loss typically associated with tumor progression. These results sug-
gest that the herbal extracts not only inhibited tumor growth but 
also supported overall health and body weight in treated mice. Sta-
tistical analysis conﬁrmed signiﬁcant differences between treat-
ment groups. These ﬁndings highlight the therapeutic potential 
of PR, LE, and GF in treating prostate cancer, as they signiﬁcantly 
809
To verify the in vitro anticancer effects of PR, LE, and GF on pros-
tate cancer cell lines, we performed a series of assays. The MTT 
assay revealed a dose- and time-dependent decrease in cell viabil-
ity in PC3 and LNCaP cells, most notably at 72 h and 3,000 lg/mL 
(Fig. 6B). A colony-forming assay showed that treatment with 
these herbs inhibited clonogenic growth, indicating their long-
term effects on cell survival (Fig. 7A). Flow cytometry with Annexin 
V/PI staining demonstrated that PR, LE, and GF signiﬁcantly 
increased apoptosis rates in PC3 and LNCaP cells compared to con-
trols (Fig. 7B). Western blot analysis conﬁrmed these ﬁndings,
wHC 
wCT 


showing that the expression of anti-apoptotic proteins Bcl-2 and 
Mcl-1 decreased, while markers of apoptosis, such as cleaved PARP 
and the b form of STAT3, increased after treatment with PR, LE, and 
GF. Notably, the cleaved form of caspase 3, a key executor of apop-
tosis, was upregulated, especially in LNCaP cells treated with these 
herbs (Fig. 7C and E). These assays collectively demonstrated the 
multifaceted anticancer activity of PR, LE, and GF, showcasing their 
ability to reduce cell viability, inhibit proliferation, and induce sig-
niﬁcant apoptosis.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 5. Distribution of prediction performance for herbal compounds (upper ﬁgure) and herbs (lower ﬁgure) based on databases and prediction methods.  (A) 
Schematic representation of the tasks for determining therapeutic effects and evaluations of network-based prediction methods. (B) Performance curves of network-based 
prediction methods for known therapeutic effects. (C) Distribution by platform and prediction method for known therapeutic effects. Overlap: protein overlap; proximity: 
network proximity; MSI: multiscale interactome. HERB (mining) represents data integrated from other databases, while HERB (paper) includes experimentally validated 
targets. Both datasets are provided by the HERB database.
Table 2 
Prioritized herb-indication pairs based on known herb targets and their reported evidence. 
Herb ID
Disease ID
Herb name (latin name)
Disease name
Reported evidence (PMID) 
herb007244
HBDIS001721
Petiolus trachycarpi
Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
. 
herb000960
HBDIS005061
Vinegar
Cocaine-Related Disorders
. 
herb003658
HBDIS002540
Herba ephedrae
Pulmonary Fibrosis
21,565,143 
herb003354
HBDIS002687
Melia azedarach
Schizophrenia
. 
herb000960
HBDIS002070
Vinegar
Neoplasm Metastasis
. 
herb003658
HBDIS000265
Herba ephedrae
Asthma
36,215,828 
herb005069
HBDIS002488
Granati fructus
Prostatic Neoplasms
. 
herb005017
HBDIS002028
Rhizoma zingiberis recens
Myocarditis
33,628,715 
herb000960
HBDIS001615
Vinegar
Kidney Calculi
31,202,812 
herb001239
HBDIS000372
Erigeron breviscapus
Bone neoplasms
810
We further explored the effects of PR, LE, and GF on cell cycle 
progression and metastasis. Western blot analysis indicated that 
PR and LE signiﬁcantly downregulated the expression of Cyclin 
D1 and Cdk6 and inhibited Cdk2 expression, whereas GF had sim-
ilar effects with speciﬁcity for LNCaP cells. Upregulation of Cdk 
inhibitors p19, p21, and p27 by these herbs further highlighted 
their inﬂuence on cell cycle regulation (Fig. 7D and E). Additionally, 
a wound healing assay demonstrated that PR, LE, and GF effectively 
hindered cell migration in both PC3 and LNCaP cells, with PR


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 6. Effects of predicted herbs on tumor growth in prostate cancers in vivo and in vitro. A. Effects of on tumor size in PC-3 xenograft mouse model. Tumor growth 
(upper panel), body weight changes (middle panel) and the representation of xenograft tumor size reduction (lower panel) in a PC-3 xenograft mouse model. Tumor volumes 
and body weights were measured daily. Both low doses (500 mg/kg) and high doses (1500 mg/kg) of PR, LE, and GF suppressed tumor growth and reduced body weight loss 
(n > 8). Statistical analysis was performed using Two-way ANOVA with Dunnett’s multiple comparison test (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01 vs. control; #p < 0.05, ##p < 0.01 vs. 
xenograft). PR, Puerariae Radix; LE, Lithospermum Erythrorhizon; GF, Granati Fructus; Xeno, xenograft control; DOX, doxorubicin. B. Cell viability measured using MTT assay in 
PC3 and LNCaP cells treated with PR, LE, and GF at the indicated concentrations and times (comparison with control, * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01).
811


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 7. The effects of predicted herbs on cell proliferation, migration and apoptosis in PC3 and LNCaP cells. A. Colony formation assay: Cells treated with PR, LE, and GF at 
3,000 lg/ml for 72 h were stained with Annexin V/PI to categorize the cell population into viable, apoptotic, late apoptotic, and necrotic cells (The representative bands are the 
results of experiments repeated at least four times). B. Flow cytometry analysis: Cells treated with PR, LE, and GF at 3,000 lg/ml for 72 h were stained with Annexin V/PI to 
categorize the cell population into viable, apoptotic, late apoptotic, and necrotic cells. C. Immunoblotting analysis of apoptosis-related proteins in cells treated with PR, LE, and 
GF at 3,000 lg/ml for 72 h. D. Immunoblotting analysis of cell cycle-related proteins in cells treated with PR, LE, and GF at 3,000 lg/ml for 72 h. E. Statistical analysis of protein 
of interest. (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01 vs. control). F. Scratch wound healing assay: Cells were treated with PR, LE, and GF at 3,000 lg/ml for 72 h, and real-time imaging of scratch 
conﬂuence was conducted (scale bar = 1,000 lm). The data represent the percentage change in scratch gap (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01 PR; #p < 0.05, ##p < 0.01 LE; p < 0.01 GF vs. 
control). PR, Puerariae Radix; LE, Lithospermum Erythrorhizon; GF, Granati Fructus. 
812


showing a notable reduction in migration as early as 12 h in LNCaP 
cells and 24 h in PC3 cells (Fig. 7F). Overall, our results indicate that 
the potent anticancer properties of PR, LE, and GF are mediated by 
their effects on cell migration and modulation of cell cycle-related 
proteins. 
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Discussion 
Our critical evaluation serves as a cornerstone for understand-
ing current NP analysis of herbal medicine, focusing on underlying 
mechanisms and therapeutic effects. Initially, we outlined the net-
work construction process, highlighting the diverse DBs used for 
compound identiﬁcation, target prediction, and key analytical tools 
to discern herbal mechanisms and therapeutic roles. Our explora-
tory analysis revealed high consistency in ingredient information 
across herbal medicine DBs, yet signiﬁcant disparities in target 
information, emphasizing the need for a thorough evaluation. In 
our recapitulation task, the performance and coverage patterns 
were signiﬁcantly inﬂuenced by the choice of NP-DBs, their combi-
nation methods, and analysis techniques such as network central-
ity and weighted PC. Further analysis of the therapeutic effects 
highlighted the multiscale interactome method as particularly 
effective, especially when combined with data sources such as 
HERB and SymMap. Our case study on prostate cancer reinforced 
these ﬁndings, conﬁrming the potential of our approach to uncover 
novel therapeutic effects in real-world scenarios. 
Our analysis focuses on the consistency of NP-DB data, reveal-
ing signiﬁcant inconsistencies, particularly in ingredient–target 
associations (Fig. 2). While herb–ingredient associations were gen-
erally consistent, with recall rates exceeding 90% across most data-
base 
pairs 
except 
those 
involving 
HIT, 
ingredient–target 
associations showed marked divergence between databases. HIT 
contained very few ingredients per herb (an average of fewer than 
ﬁve) because it only includes ingredients with experimentally val-
idated targets. These discrepancies likely stem from the intrinsic 
characteristics and data curation methods of each database. For 
example, SymMap and HERB compile comprehensive herb infor-
mation by incorporating data from existing NP-DBs, whereas 
BATMAN-TCM and TCM-Mesh select ingredients based on criteria 
such as the availability of PubChem CIDs. In contrast, HIT focuses 
solely on experimentally validated targets, resulting in a much 
smaller dataset, with an average of fewer than ﬁve targets per herb. 
This inconsistency poses challenges for researchers, leading to 
varying interpretations of an herb’s mechanism of action depend-
ing on the database. Our ﬁndings underscore the urgent need for 
a standardized approach to data collection and integration in NP-
DBs to improve the reliability of network pharmacology analyses 
involving herbal medicines. 
We compared various methods for key target identiﬁcation in 
network analysis and recognized that the characteristics of these 
methods, according to the assumptions on which they rely, affect 
their applicability (Fig. 4). For instance, approaches like protein– 
protein interaction (PPI) network analysis, which perform effec-
tively in social networks [41,42], assume that targets centrally 
located in the PPI subnetwork are naturally pivotal. However, this 
assumption may not hold true in the complex networks of herbal 
compounds and their targets, making the efﬁcacy of identifying 
key herbal targets elusive. Recent studies have highlighted that 
the inﬂuence of drugs is more local than global within a network 
[23], suggesting that the closeness between drug targets and 
disease-related proteins is crucial in determining therapeutic 
effects. Therefore, beyond global centrality measures, detailed 
investigation into the local relationships between herbal medicines 
and diseases within the network is warranted. Similarly, the use of 
path counts (PCs) can be limited by the uniform consideration of all 
paths, regardless of whether they originate from common ingredi-
ents or those with extensive target proﬁles. High-degree nodes 
often correspond to biologically general or nonspeciﬁc entities, 
providing limited speciﬁc information [22]. Results from the DWPC 
algorithm 
suggest 
that 
downweighting 
herb-compound 
and 
compound-target paths involving high-degree nodes can elucidate 
known mechanisms of herbal medicines more accurately. Differen-
tiating the weights of PCs based on node characteristics—such as 
downweighting paths associated with high-degree nodes—could 
reﬁne the analysis. Adjusting path weighting in this way may lead 
to a more accurate elucidation of key mechanisms, enhancing our 
understanding of how herbal medicines exert their therapeutic 
effects. Overall, these insights highlight the need for nuanced ana-
lytical techniques that consider the unique properties of herbal 
medicine networks to improve key target identiﬁcation. 
813
To the best of our knowledge, this study represents a pioneering 
effort to systematically investigate the therapeutic effects of natu-
ral products (Fig. 5). Historically, the identiﬁcation of disease treat-
ments through NP has predominantly focused on the measures of 
protein overlap and network proximity. These are conducted based 
on the assumption that a drug that tends to overlap with a disease 
and its proteins will treat that disease, or that a target occupying 
an important network position in the relationship between 
selected proteins will play a crucial role. However, the applicability 
of these foundational beliefs to understand the intricacies of natu-
ral products remains a topic of debate. Our ﬁndings suggest that 
protein overlap is limited and only effective for a restricted spec-
trum of therapeutic effects. Although network proximity encom-
passes protein relationships within a network, its efﬁcacy often 
mirrors random outcomes, suggesting that merely focusing on pro-
tein interactions in natural products may generate misleading con-
clusions. In contrast, our research indicated that evaluating the 
effects within a multiscale interactome can provide a more reliable 
prediction for identifying therapeutic effects. 
To validate the potential of a novel therapeutic approach for 
prostate cancer predicted by our research, we conducted in vitro 
experiments to conﬁrm its effects. In our study, we conﬁrmed that 
the predicted herbs PR, LE, and GF inhibited cell viability, prolifer-
ation, and migration by regulating proteins involved in apoptosis 
and cell cycle regulation (Fig. 6). Moreover, we conﬁrmed the 
in vivo effects of the predicted herbs on tumor growth inhibition 
in nude mice xenografted with PC3 cells (data not shown). PR is 
a widely used traditional herb for various conditions such as car-
diovascular 
diseases, 
diabetes 
mellitus, 
and 
deafness 
[43]. 
Although studies on the anticancer effects of PR in vivo and 
in vitro are lacking, the isoﬂavones present in PR induce apoptosis 
and cell cycle arrest in the G2/M phase in breast cancer cells [44]. 
LE has antioxidant properties [45] and suppresses high-fat diet-
induced obesity [46]. In addition, LE has also been shown to exhibit 
anticancer effects by inducing apoptosis and G1 phase arrest in 
B16F10 melanoma cells. Additionally, it has shown potential anti-
cancer effects in a C57BL/6 mouse model [47]. GF has demon-
strated anti-inﬂammatory effects both in vivo and in vitro [48].  It  
has therapeutic and preventive effects against various chronic 
human diseases, including an atherogenic lipoprotein proﬁle, 
imbalanced antioxidative status, and disrupted glucose tolerance 
[49]. In line with this, several ingredients have been studied as 
anti-cancer agents in clinical trials [50]. Dietary supplements like 
saw palmetto and green tea extract have also shown effects on 
prostate cancer in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) [51]. Nota-
bly, clinical studies have explored herbal components such as 
genistein and daidzein found in PR, as well as vitamin C and cate-
chin present in GF, for their roles in regulating prostate cancer pro-
gression [52,53,54]. These previous and current ﬁndings suggest 
that the predicted herbs in this study have potential efﬁcacy 
against prostate cancer. However, further research, including RCTs,


is needed to conﬁrm the beneﬁcial effects of PR, LE, and GF on pros-
tate cancer and other human cancers. 
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
This study may contain several limitations that may require fur-
ther evaluation and reﬁnement. First, the known therapeutic 
effects analyzed are primarily based on in vivo experiments, sug-
gesting the need for additional clinical studies to validate these 
ﬁndings in a real-world context. Second, our analysis relied on a 
single database for known target and therapeutic effects, which 
may introduce bias due to the limited scope and curation criteria 
of the database. Lastly, while our computational methods are 
robust, they do not fully account for the complex pharmacokinetics 
and interactions of multiple compounds within herbal formula-
tions, which could inﬂuence therapeutic outcomes. Nevertheless, 
this study represents the ﬁrst systematic analysis and validation 
of the therapeutic effects of herbal medicine through network 
pharmacology, laying a strong foundation for future research in 
this area. 
Conclusion 
Our study systematically evaluated the methodologies of NP in 
herbal medicine and provided essential insights into the mecha-
nisms and therapeutic effects of herbal ingredients. We emphasize 
the signiﬁcance of methodological approaches in network con-
struction and analysis, particularly the advantages of multiscale 
interactomes over traditional methods, such as protein overlap 
and network proximity. Our empirical validation further afﬁrmed 
the potential of NP to identify and substantiate novel therapeutic 
effects, as exempliﬁed by its successful application in prostate can-
cer treatment, thereby establishing a precedent for future research 
in this promising ﬁeld. 
CRediT authorship contribution statement 
Won-Yung Lee: Conceptualization, Methodology, Writing – 
original draft, Supervision. Kwang-Il Park: Investigation, Visual-
ization, Writing – original draft. Seon-Been Bak: Software, Formal 
analysis, Writing – original draft. Seungho Lee: Formal analysis, 
Project administration, Supervision, Writing – review & editing. 
Su-Jin Bae: Validation, Resources. Min-Jin Kim: Formal analysis, 
Data curation. Sun-Dong Park: Resources, Writing – review & edit-
ing. Choon Ok Kim: Resources, Writing – review & editing. Ji-
Hwan Kim: Funding acquisition, Writing – review & editing. 
Young Woo Kim: Conceptualization, Supervision, Writing – 
review & editing, Funding acquisition. Chang-Eop Kim: Conceptu-
alization, Methodology, Writing – review & editing. 
Funding 
This research was supported by grants from the National 
Research Foundation of Korea (NRF) funded by the Korean govern-
ment 
(MSIT) 
(grant 
numbers 
RS-2023–00243363, 
RS-2023– 
00218419, RS-2024–00449029, and RS-2024–00335030), the Min-
istry
of
Education
(NRF–2022R1I1A2066653
and 
2022R1I1A3053818), and the Korea Health Technology R&D Pro-
ject through the Korea Health Industry Development Institute 
(KHIDI), funded by the Ministry of Health & Welfare, Republic of 
Korea (grant number: HF20C0212). 
Declaration of competing interest 
The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnan-
cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to inﬂuence the work reported in this paper. 
814
Appendix A. Supplementary data 
Supplementary data to this article can be found online at 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jare.2024.12.040. 
References 
[1] Katashima CK, de Oliveira MT, Braga RR, Gaspar RS, Goeminne LJ, Moura-Assis 
A, et al. Evidence for a neuromuscular circuit involving hypothalamic 
interleukin-6 in the control of skeletal muscle metabolism. Sci Adv 2022;8 
(30). doi: https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.abm7355. 
[2] Luo L, Jiang J, Wang C, Fitzgerald M, Hu W, Zhou Y, et al. Analysis on herbal 
medicines utilized for treatment of COVID-19. Acta Pharm Sin B 2020;10 
(7):1192–204. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsb.2020.05.007. 
[3] Luo H, Vong CT, Chen H, Gao Y, Lyu P, Qiu L, et al. Naturally occurring anti-
cancer compounds: shining from Chinese herbal medicine. Chin Med 2019;14 
(1):48. doi: https://doi.org/10.1186/s13020-019-0268-2. 
[4] Peng F, Xie X, Peng C. Chinese herbal medicine-based cancer therapy: novel 
anticancer agents targeting microRNAs to regulate tumor growth and 
metastasis. 
Am 
J 
Chin 
Med 
2019;47(8):1711–35. 
doi: 
https://doi.org/ 
10.1142/S0192415X19500838. 
[5] Long F, Yang H, Xu Y, Hao H, Li P. A strategy for the identiﬁcation of 
combinatorial bioactive compounds contributing to the holistic effect of herbal 
medicines. Sci Rep 2015;5(1):12361. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/srep12361. 
[6] Zhang GB, Li QY, Chen QL, Su SB. Network pharmacology: a new approach for 
Chinese herbal medicine research. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med 
2013;2013:. doi: https://doi.org/10.1155/2013/621423621423. 
[7] Li S, Zhang B. Traditional Chinese medicine network pharmacology: theory, 
methodology and application. Chin J Nat Med 2013;11(2):110–20. doi: https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/S1875-5364(13)60037-0. 
[8] Hopkins AL. Network pharmacology: the next paradigm in drug discovery. Nat 
Chem Biol 2008;4(11):682–90. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/nchembio.118. 
[9] Lee W-Y, Lee C-Y, Kim Y-S, Kim C-E. The methodological trends of traditional 
herbal medicine employing network pharmacology. Biomolecules 2019;9 
(8):362. doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/biom9080362. 
[10] Zhang R, Zhu X, Bai H, Ning K. Network pharmacology databases for traditional 
chinese medicine: review and assessment. Front Pharmacol 2019;10:123. doi: 
https://doi.org/10.3389/fphar.2019.00123. 
[11] Xin W, Zi-Yi W, Zheng J-H, Shao L. TCM network pharmacology: a new trend 
towards combining computational, experimental and clinical approaches. Chin 
J Nat Med 2021;19(1):1–11. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/S1875-5364(21) 
60001-8. 
[12] Ru J, Li P, Wang J, Zhou W, Li B, Huang C, et al. TCMSP: a database of systems 
pharmacology for drug discovery from herbal medicines. J Cheminform 2014;6 
(1):1–6. doi: https://doi.org/10.1186/1758-2946-6-13. 
[13] Zhang R-z, Yu S-j, Bai H, Ning K. TCM-Mesh: the database and analytical 
system for network pharmacology analysis for TCM preparations. Sci Rep 
2017;7(1):2821. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-017-03039-7. 
[14] Liu Z, Guo F, Wang Y, Li C, Zhang X, Li H, et al. BATMAN-TCM: a bioinformatics 
analysis tool for molecular mechanism of traditional Chinese medicine. Sci Rep 
2016;6(1):21146. doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/srep21146. 
[15] Wu Y, Zhang F, Yang K, Fang S, Bu D, Li H, et al. SymMap: an integrative 
database of traditional Chinese medicine enhanced by symptom mapping. 
Nucleic Acids Res 2019;47(D1). doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gky1021. 
[16] Fang S, Dong L, Liu L, Guo J, Zhao L, Zhang J, et al. HERB: a high-throughput 
experiment-and reference-guided database of traditional Chinese medicine. 
Nucleic Acids Res 2021;49(D1). doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkaa1063. 
[17] Ruiz C, Zitnik M, Leskovec J. Identiﬁcation of disease treatment mechanisms 
through the multiscale interactome. Nat Commun 2021;12(1):1796. doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1038/s41467-021-21770-8. 
[18] Chandra RV, Varanasi BS. Python requests essentials. Birmingham, UK: Packt 
Publishing; 2015. 
[19] Subramanian A, Narayan R, Corsello SM, Peck DD, Natoli TE, Lu X, et al. A next 
generation connectivity map: L1000 platform and the ﬁrst 1,000,000 proﬁles. 
Cell 2017;171(6). doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2017.10.049. 1437-52.e17. 
[20] Yang M, Chen J-L, Xu L-W, Ji G. Navigating traditional Chinese medicine 
network pharmacology and computational tools. Evid Based Complement 
Alternat Med 2013. doi: https://doi.org/10.1155/2013/731969. 
[21] Bonacich P. Some unique properties of eigenvector centrality. Soc Netw 
2007;29(4):555–64. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.socnet.2007.04.002. 
[22] Himmelstein DS, Baranzini SE. Heterogeneous network edge prediction: a data 
integration approach to prioritize disease-associated genes. PLoS Comput Biol 
2015;11(7). doi: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1004259. 
[23] Guney E, Menche J, Vidal M, Barabási A-L. Network-based in silico drug 
efﬁcacy 
screening. 
Nat 
Commun 
2016;7(1):10331. 
doi: 
https://doi.org/ 
10.1038/ncomms10331. 
[24] Safety MoFaD. The Korean pharmacopoeia. Seoul, Korea; 2022. 
[25] Xue R, Fang Z, Zhang M, Yi Z, Wen C, Shi T. TCMID: traditional Chinese 
medicine integrative database for herb molecular mechanism analysis. Nucleic 
Acids Res 2012;41(D1). doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gks1100. 
[26] Xu X, Zhang W, Huang C, Li Y, Yu H, Wang Y, et al. A novel chemometric 
method for the prediction of human oral bioavailability. Int J Mol Sci 2012;13 
(6):6964–82. doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms13066964.


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advanced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
[27] Huang J, Cheung F, Tan HY, Hong M, Wang N, Yang J, et al. Identiﬁcation of the 
active compounds and signiﬁcant pathways of yinchenhao decoction based on 
network pharmacology. Mol Med Rep 2017;16(4):4583–92. doi: https://doi. 
org/10.3892/mmr.2017.7149. 
[28] Xu L, Zhang Y, Zhang P, Dai X, Gao Y, Lv Y, et al. Integrated metabolomics and 
network pharmacology strategy-driven active traditional Chinese medicine 
ingredients discovery for the alleviation of cisplatin nephrotoxicity. Chem Res 
Toxicol
2019;32(12):2411–21.
doi:
https://doi.org/10.1021/acs. 
chemrestox.9b00180. 
[29] Tao W, Xu X, Wang X, Li B, Wang Y, Li Y, et al. Network pharmacology-based 
prediction of the active ingredients and potential targets of Chinese herbal Radix 
Curcumae formula for application to cardiovascular disease. J Ethnopharmacol 
2013;145(1):1–10. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jep.2012.09.051. 
[30] Ye H, Ye L, Kang H, Zhang D, Tao L, Tang K, et al. HIT: linking herbal active 
ingredients to targets. Nucleic Acids Res 2010;39(suppl_1). doi: https://doi. 
org/10.1093/nar/gkq1165. 
[31] Yan D, Zheng G, Wang C, Chen Z, Mao T, Gao J, et al. HIT 2.0: an enhanced 
platform for Herbal Ingredients’ Targets. Nucleic Acids Res 2022;50(D1): 
D1238–43. doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkab1011. 
[32] Wishart DS, Feunang YD, Guo AC, Lo EJ, Marcu A, Grant JR, et al. DrugBank 5.0: 
a major update to the DrugBank database for 2018. Nucleic Acids Res 2018;46 
(D1). doi: https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkx1037. 
[33] Yu H, Chen J, Xu X, Li Y, Zhao H, Fang Y, et al. A systematic prediction of 
multiple 
drug-target 
interactions 
from 
chemical, 
genomic, 
and 
pharmacological data. PLoS One 2012;7(5). doi: https://doi.org/10.1371/ 
journal.pone.0037608. 
[34] Perlman L, Gottlieb A, Atias N, Ruppin E, Sharan R. Combining drug and gene 
similarity measures for drug-target elucidation. J Comput Biol 2011;18 
(2):133–45. doi: https://doi.org/10.1089/cmb.2010.0213. 
[35] Szklarczyk D, Santos A, Von Mering C, Jensen LJ, Bork P, Kuhn M. STITCH 5: 
augmenting protein–chemical interaction networks with tissue and afﬁnity 
data. 
Nucleic 
Acids 
Res 
2016;44(D1). 
doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/ 
gkv1277. 
[36] Barabási AL, Gulbahce N, Loscalzo J. Network medicine: a network-based 
approach to human disease. Nat Rev Genet 2011;12(1):56–68. doi: https://doi. 
org/10.1038/nrg2918. 
[37] Estrada 
E, 
Rodriguez-Velazquez 
JA. 
Subgraph 
centrality 
in 
complex 
networks. PhysRevE 2005;71(5):. doi: https://doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.71. 
056103056103. 
[38] Zhang 
QR, 
Zhong 
ZF, 
Sang 
W, 
Xiong 
W, 
Tao 
HX, 
Zhao 
GD, 
et 
al. 
Comparative comprehension on the anti-rheumatic Chinese herbal medicine 
Siegesbeckiae Herba: Combined computational predictions and experimental 
investigations. 
J 
Ethnopharmacol 
2019;228:200–9. 
doi: 
https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.jep.2018.09.023. 
[39] Tang J, Aittokallio T. Network pharmacology strategies toward multi-target 
anticancer therapies: from computational models to experimental design 
principles. Curr Pharm Des 2014;20(1):23–36. doi: https://doi.org/10.2174/ 
13816128113199990470. 
[40] Bak SB, Song YR, Bae SJ, Lee WY, Kim YW. Integrative approach to uncover 
antioxidant properties of Bupleuri Radix and its active compounds: Multiscale 
interactome-level analysis with experimental validation. Free Radic Biol Med 
2023;199:141–53. doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2023.02.016. 
815
[41] Woods J, Galbraith B, Hewitt-Dundas N. Network centrality and open 
innovation: a social network analysis of an SME manufacturing cluster. IEEE 
Trans 
Eng 
Manag 
2019;69(2):351–64. 
doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
TEM.2019.2934765. 
[42] Landherr A, Friedl B, Heidemann J. A critical review of centrality measures in 
social networks. Bus Inf Syst Eng 2010;2:371–85. doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
s12599-010-0127-3. 
[43] Zhang Z, Lam TN, Zuo Z. Radix Puerariae: an overview of its chemistry, 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and clinical use. J Clin Pharmacol 2013;53 
(8):787–811. doi: https://doi.org/10.1002/jcph.96. 
[44] Lin YJ, Hou YC, Lin CH, Hsu YA, Sheu JJ, Lai CH, et al. Puerariae radix isoﬂavones 
and their metabolites inhibit growth and induce apoptosis in breast cancer 
cells. Biochem Biophys Res Commun 2009;378(4):683–8. doi: https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.10.178. 
[45] Han J, 
Weng X, Bi 
K. Antioxidants 
from a Chinese medicinal herb– 
Lithospermum erythrorhizon. Food Chem 2008;106(1):2–10. doi: https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.foodchem.2007.01.031. 
[46] Gwon SY, Ahn JY, Chung CH, Moon B, Ha TY. Lithospermum erythrorhizon 
suppresses 
high-fat 
diet-induced 
obesity, 
and 
acetylshikonin, 
a 
main 
compound 
of 
Lithospermum 
erythrorhizon, 
inhibits 
adipocyte 
differentiation. J Agric Food Chem 2012;60(36):9089–96. doi: https://doi. 
org/10.1021/jf3017404. 
[47] Rajasekar S, Park C, Park S, Park YH, Kim ST, Choi YH, et al. In vitro and in vivo 
anticancer effects of Lithospermum erythrorhizon extract on B16F10 murine 
melanoma. 
J 
Ethnopharmacol 
2012;144(2):335–45. 
doi: 
https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.jep.2012.09.017. 
[48] Lee CJ, Chen LG, Liang WL, Wang CC. Anti-inﬂammatory effects of Punica 
granatum Linne in vitro and in vivo. Food Chem 2010;118(2):315–22. doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodchem.2009.04.123. 
[49] Bagri P, Ali M, Aeri V, Bhowmik M, Sultana S. Antidiabetic effect of 
Punica 
granatum 
ﬂowers: 
effect 
on 
hyperlipidemia, 
pancreatic 
cells 
lipid 
peroxidation 
and 
antioxidant 
enzymes 
in 
experimental 
diabetes. 
Food 
Chem 
Toxicol 
2009;47(1):50–4. 
doi: 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.fct. 
2008.09.058. 
[50] Jencˇa A, Mills DK, Ghasemi H, Saberian E, Jencˇa A, Karimi Forood AM, et al. 
Herbal therapies for cancer treatment: a review of phytotherapeutic efﬁcacy. 
Biologics 2024:229–55. doi: https://doi.org/10.2147/BTT.S484068. 
[51] Posadzki P, Lee MS, Onakpoya I, Lee HW, Ko BS, Ernst E. Dietary supplements 
and prostate cancer: a systematic review of double-blind, placebo-controlled 
randomised clinical trials. Maturitas 2013;75(2):125–30. doi: https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.maturitas.2013.03.006. 
[52] Lazarevic B, Boezelijn G, Diep LM, Kvernrod K, Ogren O, Ramberg H, et al. 
Efﬁcacy and safety of short-term genistein intervention in patients with 
localized prostate cancer prior to radical prostatectomy: a randomized, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind Phase 2 clinical trial. Nutr Cancer 2011;63 
(6):889–98. doi: https://doi.org/10.1080/01635581.2011.582221. 
[53] Chong P, Rashid P. Can we prevent prostate cancer? Aust Fam Physician 
2005;34(4). doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/ncpuro0072. 
[54] Perletti G, Magri V, Vral A, Stamatiou K, Trinchieri A. Green tea catechins for 
chemoprevention of prostate cancer in patients with histologically-proven 
HG-PIN or ASAP. Concise review and meta-analysis. Arch Ital Urol Androl 
2019;91(3). doi: https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.abm7355.
