VieMedKG: Knowledge Graph and Benchmark for Traditional Vietnamese
Medicine
Tam Trinh 1, 2, *, Anh Hoang 3, *, Hy Thi Hong Nhung 4, Truong Son Hy 1, †,
1 University of Alabama at Birmingham, United States
2 National Economics University, Vietnam
3 Michigan State University, United States
4 Hanoi National University of Education, Vietnam
* Equal contribution
† Correspondence: thy@uab.edu
Abstract
Traditional Vietnamese Medicine (TVM) and
Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) have
shared significant similarities due to their ge-
ographical location, cultural exchanges, and
hot and humid climatic conditions. However,
unlike TCM, which has substantial works pub-
lished to construct a knowledge graph, there is
a notable absence of a comprehensive knowl-
edge graph for TVM. This paper presents the
first endeavor to build a knowledge graph for
TVM based on extensive existing resources
from TCM. We name our knowledge graph
as VieMedKG. We propose a translation and
filtration process to adapt TCM knowledge
graphs to TVM, identifying the overlapping
and unique elements of TVM. In addition,
the constructed knowledge graph is then ex-
ploited further for developing a curated bench-
mark for the knowledge graph-based question-
answering problem with the potential to sup-
port doctors and patients in assisting doctors
and patients in identifying various diseases.
Our work will not only bridge the gap be-
tween TCM and TVM but also set the foun-
dation for future research into traditional Viet-
namese medicine community. Our source code
is publicly available at https://github.com/
HySonLab/VieMedKG/.
1
Introduction
Traditional Vietnamese Medicine (TVM) is a com-
plete medical system that has been discovered and
developed for many thousands of years. In the
past, deeply influenced by the ancient philosophies
of Yin and Yang, the Five Elements from Tradi-
tional Chinese Medicine, TVM has integrated a
wide range of elements, including herbal medicine,
massage, disease names, and methods to cure them,
while also preserving and integrating the unique
Vietnamese traditional elements and indigenous
knowledge. Since TVM has evolved throughout
the long history of Vietnamese nation and people,
a systematic way such as Knowledge Graph to rep-
resent a comprehensive view of TVM is crucial.
A knowledge graph can effectively organize and
represent the complex relationship between vari-
ous element of TVM such as diseases, symptoms,
herbal medicine, the cause of disease and treatment
methods. This structured representation can not
only help cultural preservation but also make TVM
more accessible to develop future research works
and applications in the domain of Vietnamese tra-
ditional medicine.
However, despite several advantages, building a
knowledge graph from a vast resources of TVM
requires overcoming many challenges. The knowl-
edge of TVM is often documented in historical
texts, local manuscrips or oral communication
which are inherently unstructured and lack of stan-
dardardiztion. Knowledge Graphs help to prevent
hallucination in Large Language Models (LLMs)
because they are more rigorous and structured.
Therefore, processing these kind of data into a
knowledge graph for TVM can be time consuming
and costly. At the same time, many works (Chen
et al., 2023; Cheng et al., 2018; Long et al., 2019;
Zhou et al., 2010) have been published with sig-
nificant efforts to collect, validate, contruct and
exploit several downstream application of TCM
in knowledge graph representation such as graph-
based question answering and infomation retrieval.
Realizing the similarities between TCM and TVM,
we propose a method to leverage the existing TCM
knowledge graph as a foundation in order to build a
comprehensive knowledge graph for TVM. Our ap-
proach involves not only translating TCM data into
Vietnamses version but also filtering and adapting
that data to preverse and reflect the uniqueness of
Vietnamese traditional medicine. By doing so, we
can effectively utilize the huge amount of TCM
data already available. Furthermore, we also analy-
sis and propose a benchmark for graph-based ques-
tion answering problem on our TVM knowledge
1
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 


DISEASE
ADVICE
TREATMENT
MEDICINE
SYMPTOM
ASSOCIATED
DISEASE
Figure 1: Illustrative representation of VieMedKG,
showing the connections among entities
graph. To sum up, our contributions can be divided
into the following categories:
• We introduce a new knowledge graph
VieMedKG
for
Traditional
Vietnamese
Medicine built upon the current existing
Traditional Chinese Medicine by applying
translation and filtration process. To the best
of our knowledge, this is the first endeavor to
construct a systemetic way to represent TVM
knowledge (see Figure 1).
• We propose a curated benchmark for graph-
based question answering problem about
TVM and further analysis some methods on
VieMedKG.
2
Related works
2.1
TCM and TVM dataset
The availability of comprehensive datasets is cru-
cial for knowledge discovery in TCM. Several sig-
nificant TCM data resources have been developed.
China TCM Patent Database (CTCMPD), managed
by the State Intellectual Property Office of China,
includes over 19,000 patents and 40,000 formulae
(Liu and Sun, 2004). TCMBank (Lv et al., 2023),
extended from TCM Database@Taiwan (Chen,
2011), includes 9,192 herbs, 61,966 ingredients,
15,179 targets, and 32,529 diseases.
In addition, several notable efforts have been
made to construct TCM Knowledge Graphs. Yu
et al. (2017) constructed the TCM health care
knowledge graph through ontology-based database
integration.
Zheng et al. (2020) constructed
TCMKG by training deep learning model for
named entity recognition, aligning data, and creat-
ing triples based on the ontology. Zhang and Hao
(2024) adopted Large Language Models for name
entity recognition to construct a knowledge graph
of TCM.
In the context of Vietnamese Medicine, several
datasets have been developed to facilitate research
and application in this field. VietHERB, a database
for Vietnamese Herbal Species, was built in an
ontology-based structure to organize the numer-
ous hierarchical multi-class of herbs (Nguyen-Vo
et al., 2018). However, Nguyen-Vo et al. (2018)
pointed out that the limitations of obtaining data
are poor handwriting records and unexpected incor-
rect information when computerizing from hard-
copied documents. ViMQ, a Vietnamese Medi-
cal Question Dataset, contains 9,000 questions for
the two tasks of intent classification and named
entity recognition (Huy et al., 2021).
Despite
these resources, there is no benchmark for Question
Answering (QA) over Knowledge Graphs (KGs)
for Vietnamese Medicine, highlighting a gap that
needs to be addressed for further advancement in
this field.
2.2
Question Answering System using
Knowledge Graphs (KGs)
Early efforts in Knowledge Graph Question An-
swering (KGQA) aimed to convert natural language
queries into formal logical queries using deep neu-
ral semantic parsing such as (Andreas et al., 2016;
Lan et al., 2019; Yin et al., 2016). However, these
approaches struggle with complex queries that need
multi-hop reasoning and managing constraints on
incomplete knowledge graphs. An alternative re-
search approach to Knowledge Graph Question An-
swering (KGQA) frames the task as a graph traver-
sal problem, directly reasoning on the input graph
to uncover structural patterns in transitive relations.
Methods like VRN (Zhang et al., 2018), GraftNet
(Sun et al., 2018), and PullNet (Sun et al., 2019)
employ graph neural networks and local subgraph
searches to navigate entities within the knowledge
graph.
Recent advancements in integrating large lan-
guage models (LLMs) with knowledge graphs
(KGs) have shown significant progress.
Tech-
niques such as REALM (Guu et al., 2020) and RAG
(Lewis et al., 2020) have been developed to retrieve
documents and enhance language models using
these documents. Furthermore, KGs can serve as a
2
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 


valuable & rigorous knowledge source, where in-
formation is succinctly encoded, and several meth-
ods have been proposed to integrate these facts
from KGs into language models (Galetzka et al.,
2021; Rony et al., 2022; Kang et al., 2022). Never-
theless, these approaches generally require exten-
sive training data and frequent model updates for
various downstream tasks. Recent research (Izac-
ard et al., 2024) indicates that retrieval-augmented
language models can achieve strong performance
with few-shot learning. In our work, we will exper-
iment with retrieval-augmented language models
using both zero-shot and few-shot learning, without
additional training steps.
3
Method
3.1
Knowledge Graph for Traditional
Vietnamese Medicine (VieMedKG)
3.1.1
Access to Traditional Medical
Knowledge
Both TVM and TCM share a historical foundation
due to Vietnam’s annexation by China for over a
thousand years, facilitating the transfer of medical
knowledge and practices. Both traditions heavily
rely on herbal remedies, but TVM adapts its phar-
macopeia to include local Vietnamese plants suited
to the tropical climate, unlike the temperate-climate
plants used in Chinese Medicine (Bui, 2019). Addi-
tionally, TVM data collection faces challenges like
poor handwriting in historical records and errors
during computerization (Nguyen-Vo et al., 2018).
In contrast, TCM benefits from a well-established
and comprehensive database developed over several
decades. As a result, leveraging the TCM database
can improve the accuracy and depth of medical re-
search. In this study, we obtained structured data
from OpenKG, the Chinese open database. Our
dataset, presented in Traditional Chinese, contains
comprehensive information on 9,464 different dis-
eases, including their symptoms, treatments, medi-
cations, patient advice, and linked diseases.
3.1.2
Translation
Vietnamese word formation has been significantly
influenced by Chinese, with Chinese-originated
words accounting for about 70% of Vietnamese
vocabulary, termed Sino-Vietnamese, and about
50% in modern Vietnamese (Đặng, 2003). Sino-
Vietnamese can be easily translated word by word,
often resulting in meaningless translations, and
some terms lack Vietnamese equivalents but have
English ones. Therefore, we have decided to trans-
late from Chinese to English, then from English to
Vietnamese.
Baidu Translator is widely recognized as the
most popular tool for translating Chinese to En-
glish quickly through free internet use (Yao et al.,
2012). According to (Razzaka et al., 2019), Baidu
translation tends to be more accurate and contex-
tually appropriate for traditional Chinese literature
than Google Translator, which is one of the most
popular translators. Furthermore, Baidu Translator
offers a specialized API for medical translations.
For instance, the Chinese term “附錄” is trans-
lated by Google Translator as "phụlục," referring
to a section at the end of a book, whereas Baidu
Translator renders it as "ruột thừa," aligning with
its medical meaning as a small organ attached to
the intestines on the right side of the human body.
Consequently, we have chosen to utilize Baidu
Translator for translation. To ensure accuracy and
the quality of the translations, we then used GPT-4
(Achiam et al., 2023) and human evaluation, which
is checked by a linguistic expert with a PhD in
Chinese linguistics for fact-checking, translating
quality, and refinement.
3.1.3
Construction of VieMedKG
The construction of VietMedKG requires a num-
ber of processes such as Entity Disambiguation
and Entity Linking. The core of the knowledge
graph are the triple’s entities, attributes, and rela-
tionships. The entities and attributes are combined
and fed into the knowledge graph through the popu-
lar graph database - Neo4j database (Miller, 2013)
to store data about nodes and relationships. En-
tities have 5 labels including disease, symptom,
treatment, medicine, and advice corresponding
to which relationships include HAS_SYMPTOM,
HAS_TREATMENT, USE_MEDICINE, HAS_
ADVICE, and IS_LINKED_WITH. Each entity
provides its own additional attributes with detailed
information as Figure 4 shows. The constructed
medical data knowledge graph includes 41,549
nodes and 42,112 relationships. The detailed de-
scription of the knowledge graph is shown in Table
3 and Table 4.
VieMedKG is stored in Neo4j Graph Database,
a NoSQL database that falls under the category
of graph databases, adhering to the mathematical
theory of trees. In Neo4j, nodes are represented
as vertices and relationships as edges. A literature
review by (López and la Cruz, 2015), indicates that
3
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 


Neo4j demonstrates superior performance in terms
of time response and provides shorter pathfinding
compared to relational databases.
3.1.4
Benchmark Dataset for Question
Answering
Triple creation
In constructing a benchmark
dataset for question-answering systems, the pro-
cess of triple creation is pivotal. A triple is com-
posed of three components: a head, a relation, and
a tail. In the context of a dataset centered on dis-
eases, the head represents the name of the disease,
the relation denotes the attribute associated with
the disease, and the tail indicates the value of that
attribute. These triples are then used to generate
various types of questions, including 1-hop and 2-
hop questions, which assess the ability of question-
answering systems to navigate different levels of
complexity in the knowledge base.
We used the two sequential approaches which
are label concatenation method and the usage of
Large Language Model (LLM). The initial method
involves concatenating labels from unseen triples
to generate questions. For instance, using the triple
(“pertussis”, “people_easy_get”, “More common
in children”) would create a question such as “Per-
tussis have people easy get?”. Despite potentially
generating grammatically incorrect or nonsensical
questions, this approach effectively imparts tex-
tual information to the model concerning keywords
linked with the relations.
1-hop question dataset
For 1-hop question, we
designed 32 types of questions in total (see Table
5). In exploring the relationship between extensive
medical information (an attribute in the graph) and
disease identification, this study encountered chal-
lenges with question length. Utilizing all details
from attributes resulted in overly long questions. To
address this, the GPT-4 language model (Achiam
et al., 2023) was employed. GPT-4 offered two
functionalities: 1) random summarization of an
attribute, and 2) targeted selection of a key point
within that attribute. Both approaches aimed to
shorten the question to under 25 words while pre-
serving its core meaning.
2-hop question dataset
We designed 10 types
of questions (see Table 5). To address the issue of
lengthy questions, we employed a similar method-
ology as used for the 1-hop questions.
Creating
multiple
answer
questions
We
grouped questions of the same type from the
dataset and calculated the Jaccard similarity
(Niwattanakul et al., 2013) between attribute
values used in question creation. If the similarity
exceeded 0.9, we merged the answers accord-
ingly. This process ensured that questions with
highly similar attributes yielded merged answers,
optimizing question diversity while maintaining
relevance.
Generating natural-sounding question using
LLM
We employed the GPT-4 language model to
create natural-sounding questions from those gen-
erated by the label concatenation method. Using
zero-shot prompting, we instructed the model to
emulate doctors or patients seeking disease infor-
mation. Figure 2 demonstrates the question genera-
tion process from triples, involving feeding pairs of
triples and target questions derived from the train-
ing data.
By applying GPT-4 (Achiam et al., 2023) to our
training set, we harnessed its ability to encode re-
lationships between words and phrases, thus pro-
ducing coherent questions even for triples with pre-
viously unseen relations. Subsequently, we man-
ually reviewed and eliminated nonsensical ques-
tions, and utilized uniform sampling to establish
the benchmark. The dataset consists of 4,232 ques-
tions, including 2,164 one-hop questions and 2,068
two-hop questions. Table 6 provides a detailed
description of the benchmark.
3.2
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG)
with VietMedKG
3.2.1
The Cypher Query
Neo4j’s query language is called Cypher (Francis
et al., 2018). Cypher is a declarative query lan-
guage for graphs that uses graph pattern-matching
as a main mechanism for graph data selection for
both read-only and mutating operations. As an ex-
ample, the query to retrieve symptoms of pertussis
can be stated as follows:
START Disease=node:
Disease(disease_name={disease_name})
MATCH (Disease)-[:HAS_SYMPTOM] ->
(Symptom:disease_symptom)
WHERE Sisease.disease_name = 'pertussis'
RETURN Symptom.disease_symptom,
COUNT(*)
ORDER BY COUNT(*) DESC
4
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 


Head: Pertussis
Relation: people_easy_get
Tail: More common in
children
Label
Concatenation
Head: Benzene poisoning
Relation: cure_probability
Tail: 75%
Head: Emphysema
Relation: disease_cause
Tail: Long term exposure to 
organic or inorganic dust, 
harmful gases, smokers
Pertussis has people
easy get?
Benzene poisoning
has cure probability?
Emphysema has
cause by?
GPT-4
Which populations are more
susceptible to pertussis?
How likely is it to be cured of
benzene poisoning?
What are the causes of
emphysema?
Figure 2: Overview of the procedure for question generation. The input is a triple from the KG, and the output is a
natural language question.
This
query
starts
by
searching
the
index
called “Disease” for a node whose attribute
“disease_name” is set to the contents of the pa-
rameter “disease_name”.
It then uses pattern
matching to find all symptoms associated with this
disease. The “WHERE” clause ensures that we are
specifically querying for the disease “pertussis”.
As a result, the query returns all symptoms as-
sociated with pertussis and how often they were
encountered during the traversal, which is also
the sort criterion. Attributes could be accessed
by “Symptom.disease_symptom”.
To enhance the effectiveness of Cypher state-
ments in practice, leveraging the few-shot learning
capabilities of large language models (LLMs) in-
volves presenting examples that guide the model in
generating Cypher statements. This approach facil-
itates the adaptation of Cypher syntax to specific
query requirements, ensuring compatibility with
database structures and query outcomes.
3.2.2
Augmenting LLM answer with RAG
and zero-shot prompting
Figure 3 illustrates the architecture of the Retrieval-
Augmented Generation (RAG) system. The work-
flow begins with the user submitting a question.
This question is then processed using a Cypher
query and LLM to generate relevant queries. The
retrieved nodes are used to query the knowledge
graph through Cypher queries, extracting addi-
tional contextual information. The results are re-
turned in JSON format, after which LLM generates
an answer based on the augmented query and the
contextual information provided by the knowledge
graph.
4
Experiments
4.1
Experiment Design
Researchers have been working on Question-
Answering (QA) system for Vietnamese such as
(Tran et al., 2023). However, in this paper, we
propose the first-ever QA system that incorporates
Knowledge Graph (i.e. VieMedKG) for medicine
in Vietnamese. We evaluated our QA system using
a benchmark dataset designed for QA tasks based
on VieMedKG. In our experiments, we employed
large language models (LLMs), specifically GPT-4
(Achiam et al., 2023) and Gemini 1.0 Pro (Team
et al., 2023), using zero-shot prompting to serve
as baseline for the benchmark. Subsequently, we
leveraged our RAG system with the GPT-4 and
Gemini 1.0 Pro as the generator to measure the
performance for both 1-hop and 2-hop benchmark
dataset.
To evaluate the retrieval performance and deter-
mine the contribution of retrieved triples to answer
generation, we employed accuracy as our primary
metric. For assessing the overall performance of the
QA system, we utilized metrics including BLEU
(Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE (Lin, 2004), and
METEOR (Lavie and Agarwal, 2007) scores.
4.2
Experimental Results and Analyses
The performances of retrieval and question-
answering are detailed in Tables 1 and 2, respec-
tively. When compared to the zero-shot prompt-
ing capabilities of state-of-the-art language mod-
els such as GPT-4 and Gemini 1.0 Pro, our sys-
tem exhibits a significant improvement in question-
answering performance. Specifically, our proposed
RAG system enhances the BLEU score of GPT-
4 by approximately 7.19 times and that of Gem-
ini 1.0 Pro by approximately 6.76 times for 1-hop
5
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 


Question
Query Knowledge Graph
Ask question with context
Knowledge Graph
What are the symptoms of
pertussis? 
LLM
The symptoms of pertussis include
spasmodic cough, chest tightness, low
fever, and cicada chirping sound
during inhalation.
Cypher
Query + LLM
Figure 3: Overview of the RAG system. The process begins with a user question processed through Cypher and
LLM queries to retrieve relevant knowledge graph nodes. An answer is then generated using the augmented query
and contextual information.
questions, and by approximately 11.19 times for
GPT-4 and 5.83 times for Gemini 1.0 Pro for 2-hop
questions. These considerable improvements come
with only a marginal increase in inference latency,
adding an average of 8.40 seconds for GPT-4 and
5.52 seconds for Gemini 1.0 Pro.
Model
1-hop
2-hop
GPT4
0.4143
0.4
Gemini 1.0 Pro
0.5075
0.4909
Table 1: Results for 1-hop and 2-hop retrieval perfor-
mance.
5
Conclusion
In this paper, we have introduced the first knowl-
edge graph for Traditional Vietnamese Medicine
(TVM), leveraging resources from Traditional Chi-
nese Medicine (TCM). Through systematic trans-
lation and filtration, we adapted TCM knowledge
graphs to reflect TVM’s unique elements, address-
ing a gap in the documentation of Vietnamese med-
ical knowledge. Our knowledge graph, VieMedKG,
serves as a foundational resource for future research
and applications in the TVM domain. By providing
a curated benchmark for knowledge graph-based
question answering, we have laid the groundwork
for further developments in QA systems for tra-
ditional medicine. Our experiments demonstrate
the feasibility and potential of using advanced lan-
guage models and retrieval-augmented generation
techniques in this context.
References
Josh Achiam, Steven Adler, Sandhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Florencia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Janko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.08774.
Jacob Andreas, Marcus Rohrbach, Trevor Darrell, and
Dan Klein. 2016.
Learning to compose neural
networks for question answering.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1601.01705.
Anita Bui. 2019. Traditional vietnamese medicine be-
tween chinese heritage and national tradition. Chi-
nese Medicine and Culture, 2(1):21–25.
Calvin Yu-Chian Chen. 2011.
Tcm database@ tai-
wan: the world’s largest traditional chinese medicine
database for drug screening in silico.
PloS one,
6(1):e15939.
Jiyu Chen, Jinchuan Qian, Xinmin Zhang, Zhihuan
Song, Chenying Wen, and Xueer Fan. 2023. Gpbp:
Pipeline extraction of entities and relations for con-
struction of urban utility tunnel knowledge graph. In
6
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 


Model
1-hop
2-hop
BLEU
METEOR
ROUGE
BLEU
METEOR
ROUGE
GPT4
0.058
0.157
0.104
0.021
0.092
0.112
Gemini 1.0 Pro
0.051
0.14
0.123
0.035
0.126
0.118
GPT4 + RAG (ours)
0.417
0.552
0.508
0.235
0.325
0.298
Gemini 1.0 Pro + RAG (ours)
0.345
0.492
0.479
0.204
0.265
0.246
Table 2: Results for 1-hop and 2-hop question-answering performance. We highlight the best result for each metric.
2023 CAA Symposium on Fault Detection, Supervi-
sion and Safety for Technical Processes (SAFEPRO-
CESS), pages 1–6. IEEE.
Boya Cheng, Yuan Zhang, Dejun Cai, Wan Qiu, and
Dongxin Shi. 2018. Construction of traditional chi-
nese medicine knowledge graph using data mining
and expert knowledge. In 2018 International Confer-
ence on Network Infrastructure and Digital Content
(IC-NIDC), pages 209–213.
Nadime Francis, Alastair Green, Paolo Guagliardo,
Leonid Libkin, Tobias Lindaaker, Victor Marsault,
Stefan Plantikow, Mats Rydberg, Petra Selmer, and
Andrés Taylor. 2018. Cypher: An evolving query
language for property graphs. In Proceedings of the
2018 International Conference on Management of
Data, SIGMOD ’18, page 1433–1445, New York,
NY, USA. Association for Computing Machinery.
Fabian Galetzka, Jewgeni Rose, David Schlangen, and
Jens Lehmann. 2021. Space efficient context encod-
ing for non-task-oriented dialogue generation with
graph attention transformer. In Proceedings of the
59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing (Vol-
ume 1: Long Papers), pages 7028–7041, Online.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasu-
pat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020. Realm: retrieval-
augmented language model pre-training. In Proceed-
ings of the 37th International Conference on Machine
Learning, ICML’20. JMLR.org.
Ta Duc Huy, Nguyen Anh Tu, Tran Hoang Vu,
Nguyen Phuc Minh, Nguyen Phan, Trung H. Bui, and
Steven Q. H. Truong. 2021. ViMQ: A Vietnamese
Medical Question Dataset for Healthcare Dialogue
System Development, page 657–664. Springer Inter-
national Publishing.
Gautier Izacard, Patrick Lewis, Maria Lomeli, Lucas
Hosseini, Fabio Petroni, Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-
Yu, Armand Joulin, Sebastian Riedel, and Edouard
Grave. 2024. Atlas: few-shot learning with retrieval
augmented language models. J. Mach. Learn. Res.,
24(1).
Minki Kang, Jin Myung Kwak, Jinheon Baek, and
Sung Ju Hwang. 2022. Knowledge-consistent di-
alogue generation with knowledge graphs.
Yunshi Lan, Shuohang Wang, and Jing Jiang. 2019.
Knowledge base question answering with a matching-
aggregation model and question-specific contextual
relations. IEEE/ACM Transactions on Audio, Speech,
and Language Processing, 27(10):1629–1638.
Alon Lavie and Abhaya Agarwal. 2007. Meteor: an
automatic metric for mt evaluation with high levels
of correlation with human judgments. In Proceed-
ings of the Second Workshop on Statistical Machine
Translation, StatMT ’07, page 228–231, USA. Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics.
Patrick Lewis,
Ethan Perez,
Aleksandra Piktus,
Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal,
Heinrich K¨uttler,
Mike Lewis,
Wen-tau Yih,
Tim Rockt¨aschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe
Kiela. 2020.
Retrieval-augmented generation for
knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. In Proceedings of
the 34th International Conference on Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems, NIPS ’20, Red Hook,
NY, USA. Curran Associates Inc.
Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. ROUGE: A package for automatic
evaluation of summaries.
In Text Summarization
Branches Out, pages 74–81, Barcelona, Spain. Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics.
Yanhuai Liu and Yanling Sun. 2004.
China tradi-
tional chinese medicine (tcm) patent database. World
Patent Information, 26(1):91–96.
Hai Long, Yan Zhu, Lirong Jia, Bo Gao, Jing Liu, Li-
hong Liu, and Heinrich Herre. 2019. An ontological
framework for the formalization, organization and
usage of tcm-knowledge. BMC Medical Informatics
and Decision Making, 19:79–89.
Félix Melchor Santos López and Eulogio Santos De
la Cruz. 2015. Literature review about neo4j graph
database as a feasible alternative for replacing rdbms.
Industrial Data, 18:135–139.
Qiujie Lv, Guanxing Chen, Haohuai He, Ziduo Yang,
Lu Zhao, Kang Zhang, and Calvin Yu-Chian Chen.
2023. Tcmbank-the largest tcm database provides
deep learning-based chinese-western medicine exclu-
sion prediction. Signal Transduction and Targeted
Therapy, 8(1):127.
Justin J Miller. 2013. Graph database applications and
concepts with neo4j. In Proceedings of the south-
ern association for information systems conference,
Atlanta, GA, USA, volume 2324, pages 141–147.
7
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 


Thanh-Hoang Nguyen-Vo, Tri Le, Duy Pham, Tri
Nguyen, Phuc Le, An Nguyen, Thanh Nguyen,
Thien-Ngan Nguyen, Vu Nguyen, Hai Do, et al.
2018. Vietherb: a database for vietnamese herbal
species. Journal of chemical information and model-
ing, 59(1):1–9.
Suphakit
Niwattanakul,
Jatsada
Singthongchai,
Ekkachai Naenudorn, and Supachanun Wanapu.
2013.
Using of jaccard coefficient for keywords
similarity.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-
Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evalu-
ation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the
40th Annual Meeting on Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics, ACL ’02, page 311–318, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Md Abdur Razzaka, Md Serajul Islamb, Sharowar Hos-
sainc, and Jinzhang Jiang. 2019.
Exploring and
learning english: An analysis of baidu and google
translation.
Md. Rony, Ricardo Usbeck, and Jens Lehmann. 2022.
Dialokg: Knowledge-structure aware task-oriented
dialogue generation. ArXiv, abs/2204.09149.
Haitian Sun, Tania Bedrax-Weiss, and William Cohen.
2019. PullNet: Open domain question answering
with iterative retrieval on knowledge bases and text.
In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing and the
9th International Joint Conference on Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 2380–
2390, Hong Kong, China. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Haitian Sun, Bhuwan Dhingra, Manzil Zaheer, Kathryn
Mazaitis, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, and William W Co-
hen. 2018. Open domain question answering us-
ing early fusion of knowledge bases and text. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1809.00782.
Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud,
Yonghui Wu, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu,
Radu Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai,
Anja Hauth, et al. 2023.
Gemini: a family of
highly capable multimodal models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2312.11805.
Cong Dao Tran, Nhut Huy Pham, Anh Tuan Nguyen,
Truong Son Hy, and Tu Vu. 2023. ViDeBERTa: A
powerful pre-trained language model for Vietnamese.
In Findings of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: EACL 2023, pages 1071–1078, Dubrovnik,
Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Jia Yao, Muyun Yang, Junmao Meng, Dongqing Xiao,
Tiejun Zhao, and Sheng Li. 2012. How good is web
based mt: A case study on paper title translation. In
2012 International Conference on Asian Language
Processing, pages 213–216. IEEE.
Wenpeng Yin, Mo Yu, Bing Xiang, Bowen Zhou, and
Hinrich Sch¨utze. 2016. Simple question answering
by attentive convolutional neural network.
arXiv
preprint arXiv:1606.03391.
Tong Yu, Jinghua Li, Qi Yu, Ye Tian, Xiaofeng Shun,
Lili Xu, Ling Zhu, and Hongjie Gao. 2017. Knowl-
edge graph for tcm health preservation: Design, con-
struction, and applications. Artificial intelligence in
medicine, 77:48–52.
Yichong Zhang and Yongtao Hao. 2024.
Tradi-
tional chinese medicine knowledge graph construc-
tion based on large language models. Electronics,
13(7).
Yuyu Zhang, Hanjun Dai, Zornitsa Kozareva, Alexan-
der Smola, and Le Song. 2018. Variational reasoning
for question answering with knowledge graph. In
Proceedings of the AAAI conference on artificial in-
telligence, volume 32.
Ziqiang Zheng, Yongguo Liu, Yun Zhang, and Chuan-
biao Wen. 2020. Tcmkg: A deep learning based
traditional chinese medicine knowledge graph plat-
form. In 2020 IEEE International Conference on
Knowledge Graph (ICKG), pages 560–564.
Xuezhong Zhou, Yonghong Peng, and Baoyan Liu.
2010. Text mining for traditional chinese medical
knowledge discovery: a survey. Journal of biomedi-
cal informatics, 43(4):650–660.
Đức Siêu Đặng. 2003. Dạy và học từHán Việt ởtrường
phổthông. Giáo dục.
A
Description of VieMedKG
HAS_SYMPTOM
HAS_ADVICE
IS_LINKED_WITH
Disease
disease_name
disease_description
disease_category
disease_cause
Treatment
cure_method
cure_department
cure_probability
Symptom
disease_symptom
check_method
people_easy_get
Advice
nutrition_do_eat
nutrition_recommend_meal
nutrition_not_eat
disease_prevention
Medicine
drug_detail
drug_common
drug_recommend
HAS_TREATMENT
IS_PRESCRIBED
Disease
disease_name
disease_description
disease_category
disease_cause
Figure 4: Graph Schema for VietMedKG.
8
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 


Figure 5: Subgraph of VieMedKG, visualized using Neo4j.
Entity Type
No. of Entities
disease
9,464
symptom
8,806
treatment
8,806
medicine
8,806
advice
5,577
Total
41,549
Table 3: Number of Entities by Type.
Relationship Type
No. of Relationships
HAS_SYMPTOM
8,806
HAS_TREATMENT
8,806
USE_MEDICINE
8,806
HAS_ADVICE
5,577
IS_LINKED_WITH
10,117
Total
42,112
Table 4: Number of Relationships by Type.
9
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 


1-hop question type
2-hop question type
disease_description_to_disease,
disease_symptom_to_cure_probability
disease_category_to_disease,
disease_symptom_to_nutrition_do_eat,
disease_cause_to_disease,
disease_symptom_to_nutrition_not_eat,
disease_symptom_to_disease,
disease_symptom_to_nutrition_recommend_meal,
check_method_to_disease,
disease_symptom_to_check_method,
cure_department_to_disease,
disease_cause_to_cure_method,
cure_method_to_disease,
associated_disease_to_cure_method,
cure_department_to_disease,
associated_disease_to_nutrition_do_eat,
associated_disease_to_disease,
associated_disease_to_nutrition_not_eat,
nutrition_do_eat_to_disease,
disease_category_to_cure_department.
nutrition_recommend_meal_to_disease,
nutrition_not_eat_to_disease,
disease_prevention_to_disease,
associated_disease_to_disease,
drug_recommend_to_disease,
disease_to_disease_description,
disease_to_disease_category,
disease_to_disease_cause,
disease_to_disease_symptom,
disease_to_check_method,
disease_to_people_easy_get,
disease_to_cure_method,
disease_to_cure_method,
disease_to_cure_probability,
disease_to_nutrition_do_eat,
disease_to_nutrition_recommend_meal,
disease_to_nutrition_not_eat,
disease_to_disease_prevention,
disease_to_drug_detail,
disease_to_drug_common,
disease_to_drug_recommend,
disease_to_associated_disease.
Table 5: Question types of 1-hop and 2-hop questions.
Question
No. of answers
No. of questions
per question
1
900
1-hop
2
500
3+
761
1
658
2-hop
2
410
3+
1,000
Table 6: Description of KGQA benchmark.
10
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 International license
made available under a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the author/funder, who has granted bioRxiv a license to display the preprint in perpetuity. It is 
The copyright holder for this preprint
this version posted August 9, 2024. 
; 
https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi: 
bioRxiv preprint 
