Vie Med KG: Knowledge Graph and Benchmark for Traditional Viet namese
Medicine
Tam Trinh 1, 2, *, Anh Hoang 3, *, Hy Thi Hong Nhung 4, Truong Son Hy 1, †,
1 University of Alabama at Birmin gham, United States
2 National Economics University, Viet nam
3 Mic higan State University, United States
4 Hanoi National University of Education, Viet nam
* Equal con tribution
† Correspon den ce: thy@uab. edu
Abstract
Traditional Viet namese Medicine (TVM) and
Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) have
shared significant similarities due to their ge-
ograp hical location, cultural exchan ges, and
hot and humid climatic con ditions. However,
un like TCM, which has substan tial works pub-
lished to construct a knowledge graph, there is
a notable absen ce of a com prehen sive knowl-
edge graph for TVM. This paper presents the
first en deavor to build a knowledge graph for
TVM based on exten sive existing resources
from TCM. We name our knowledge graph
as Vie Med KG. We propose a tran slation and
filtration process to adapt TCM knowledge
graphs to TVM, iden tifying the overlap ping
and unique elements of TVM. In addition,
the construc ted knowledge graph is then ex-
ploited further for developing a curated bench-
mark for the knowledge graph-based question-
an swering problem with the poten tial to sup-
port doc tors and patients in assisting doc tors
and patients in iden tifying various diseases.
Our work will not on ly bridge the gap be-
tween TCM and TVM but also set the foun-
dation for future research in to traditional Viet-
namese medicine com munity. Our source code
is public ly available at https://git hub. com/
Hy Son Lab/Vie Med KG/.
1
In troduc tion
Traditional Viet namese Medicine (TVM) is a com-
plete medical system that has been discovered and
developed for many thousands of years. In the
past, deep ly in fluen ced by the an cient philosop hies
of Yin and Yang, the Five Elements from Tradi-
tional Chinese Medicine, TVM has in tegrated a
wide ran ge of elements, in cluding herbal medicine,
massage, disease names, and met hods to cure them,
while also preserving and in tegrating the unique
Viet namese traditional elements and in digenous
knowledge. Sin ce TVM has evolved throughout
the long history of Viet namese nation and peop le,
a systematic way such as Knowledge Graph to rep-
resent a com prehen sive view of TVM is crucial.
A knowledge graph can effec tively organize and
rep resent the com plex relation ship bet ween vari-
ous element of TVM such as diseases, sym ptoms,
herbal medicine, the cause of disease and treat ment
met hods. This struc tured rep resen tation can not
on ly help cultural preservation but also make TVM
more ac cessible to develop future research works
and ap plications in the domain of Viet namese tra-
ditional medicine.
However, despite several advan tages, building a
knowledge graph from a vast resources of TVM
requires overcoming many challen ges. The knowl-
edge of TVM is often documen ted in historical
texts, local manuscrips or oral com munication
which are in heren tly unstruc tured and lack of stan-
dardardiztion. Knowledge Graphs help to prevent
hallucination in Large Lan guage Models (LLMs)
because they are more rigorous and struc tured.
Therefore, processing these kind of data in to a
knowledge graph for TVM can be time con suming
and costly. At the same time, many works (Chen
et al., 2023; Cheng et al., 2018; Long et al., 2019;
Zhou et al., 2010) have been published with sig-
nificant efforts to collect, validate, con truct and
exploit several downstream ap plication of TCM
in knowledge graph rep resen tation such as graph-
based question an swering and in fomation ret rieval.
Realizing the similarities bet ween TCM and TVM,
we propose a met hod to leverage the existing TCM
knowledge graph as a foun dation in order to build a
com prehen sive knowledge graph for TVM. Our ap-
proach in volves not on ly tran slating TCM data in to
Viet nam ses version but also filtering and adap ting
that data to preverse and reflect the uniqueness of
Viet namese traditional medicine. By doing so, we
can effec tively utilize the huge amount of TCM
data already available. Furthermore, we also analy-
sis and propose a benchmark for graph-based ques-
tion an swering problem on our TVM knowledge
1
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint


DISEASE
ADVICE
TREAT MENT
MEDICINE
SYM PTOM
ASSOCIATED
DISEASE
Figure 1: Illustrative rep resen tation of Vie Med KG,
showing the con nec tions among en tities
graph. To sum up, our con tributions can be divided
in to the following categories:
• We in troduce a new knowledge graph
Vie Med KG
for
Traditional
Viet namese
Medicine built upon the current existing
Traditional Chinese Medicine by ap plying
tran slation and filtration process. To the best
of our knowledge, this is the first en deavor to
construct a systemetic way to rep resent TVM
knowledge (see Figure 1).
• We propose a curated benchmark for graph-
based question an swering problem about
TVM and further analysis some met hods on
Vie Med KG.
2
Related works
2.1
TCM and TVM dataset
The availability of com prehen sive datasets is cru-
cial for knowledge discovery in TCM. Several sig-
nificant TCM data resources have been developed.
China TCM Patent Database (CTCMPD), managed
by the State In tellec tual Property Office of China,
in cludes over 19,000 patents and 40,000 formulae
(Liu and Sun, 2004). TCMBank (Lv et al., 2023),
exten ded from TCM Database@Taiwan (Chen,
2011), in cludes 9,192 herbs, 61,966 in gredients,
15,179 targets, and 32,529 diseases.
In addition, several notable efforts have been
made to construct TCM Knowledge Graphs. Yu
et al. (2017) construc ted the TCM health care
knowledge graph through on tology-based database
in tegration.
Zheng et al. (2020) construc ted
TCMKG by training deep learning model for
named en tity recognition, aligning data, and creat-
ing trip les based on the on tology. Zhang and Hao
(2024) adop ted Large Lan guage Models for name
en tity recognition to construct a knowledge graph
of TCM.
In the con text of Viet namese Medicine, several
datasets have been developed to facilitate research
and ap plication in this field. Viet HERB, a database
for Viet namese Herbal Species, was built in an
on tology-based struc ture to organize the numer-
ous hierarchical multi-class of herbs (Nguyen-Vo
et al., 2018). However, Nguyen-Vo et al. (2018)
poin ted out that the limitations of obtaining data
are poor handwriting records and unexpec ted in cor-
rect in formation when com puterizing from hard-
copied documents. Vi MQ, a Viet namese Medi-
cal Question Dataset, con tains 9,000 questions for
the two tasks of in tent classification and named
en tity recognition (Huy et al., 2021).
Despite
these resources, there is no benchmark for Question
An swering (QA) over Knowledge Graphs (KGs)
for Viet namese Medicine, highlighting a gap that
needs to be addressed for further advan cement in
this field.
2.2
Question An swering System using
Knowledge Graphs (KGs)
Early efforts in Knowledge Graph Question An-
swering (KGQA) aimed to con vert natural lan guage
queries in to formal logical queries using deep neu-
ral seman tic parsing such as (An dreas et al., 2016;
Lan et al., 2019; Yin et al., 2016). However, these
ap proac hes struggle with com plex queries that need
multi-hop reasoning and managing constraints on
in com plete knowledge graphs. An alternative re-
search ap proach to Knowledge Graph Question An-
swering (KGQA) frames the task as a graph traver-
sal problem, direc tly reasoning on the in put graph
to un cover struc tural pat terns in tran sitive relations.
Met hods like VRN (Zhang et al., 2018), Graft Net
(Sun et al., 2018), and Pull Net (Sun et al., 2019)
em ploy graph neural net works and local subgraph
searches to navigate en tities wit hin the knowledge
graph.
Recent advan cements in in tegrating large lan-
guage models (LLMs) with knowledge graphs
(KGs) have shown significant progress.
Tech-
niques such as REALM (Guu et al., 2020) and RAG
(Lewis et al., 2020) have been developed to ret rieve
documents and en han ce lan guage models using
these documents. Furthermore, KGs can serve as a
2
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint


valuable & rigorous knowledge source, where in-
formation is suc cinctly en coded, and several meth-
ods have been proposed to in tegrate these facts
from KGs in to lan guage models (Galet zka et al.,
2021; Rony et al., 2022; Kang et al., 2022). Never-
theless, these ap proac hes generally require exten-
sive training data and frequent model up dates for
various downstream tasks. Recent research (Izac-
ard et al., 2024) in dicates that ret rieval-augmen ted
lan guage models can ac hieve strong performan ce
with few-shot learning. In our work, we will exper-
iment with ret rieval-augmen ted lan guage models
using both zero-shot and few-shot learning, wit hout
additional training steps.
3
Met hod
3.1
Knowledge Graph for Traditional
Viet namese Medicine (Vie Med KG)
3.1.1
Ac cess to Traditional Medical
Knowledge
Both TVM and TCM share a historical foun dation
due to Viet nam’s an nexation by China for over a
thousand years, facilitating the tran sfer of medical
knowledge and prac tices. Both traditions heavily
rely on herbal remedies, but TVM adapts its phar-
macopeia to in clude local Viet namese plants suited
to the tropical climate, un like the tem perate-climate
plants used in Chinese Medicine (Bui, 2019). Addi-
tionally, TVM data collec tion faces challen ges like
poor handwriting in historical records and errors
during com puterization (Nguyen-Vo et al., 2018).
In con trast, TCM benefits from a well-established
and com prehen sive database developed over several
decades. As a result, leveraging the TCM database
can im prove the ac curacy and depth of medical re-
search. In this study, we obtained struc tured data
from Open KG, the Chinese open database. Our
dataset, presen ted in Traditional Chinese, con tains
com prehen sive in formation on 9,464 different dis-
eases, in cluding their sym ptoms, treat ments, medi-
cations, patient advice, and lin ked diseases.
3.1.2
Tran slation
Viet namese word formation has been significan tly
in fluen ced by Chinese, with Chinese-originated
words ac coun ting for about 70% of Viet namese
vocabulary, termed Sino-Viet namese, and about
50% in modern Viet namese (Đặng, 2003). Sino-
Viet namese can be easily tran slated word by word,
often resulting in meanin gless tran slations, and
some terms lack Viet namese equivalents but have
En glish ones. Therefore, we have decided to trans-
late from Chinese to En glish, then from En glish to
Viet namese.
Baidu Tran slator is widely recognized as the
most popular tool for tran slating Chinese to En-
glish quic kly through free in ternet use (Yao et al.,
2012). Ac cording to (Razzaka et al., 2019), Baidu
tran slation tends to be more ac curate and con tex-
tually ap prop riate for traditional Chinese literature
than Google Tran slator, which is one of the most
popular tran slators. Furthermore, Baidu Tran slator
offers a specialized API for medical tran slations.
For in stan ce, the Chinese term “附錄” is trans-
lated by Google Tran slator as "phụ lục," referring
to a sec tion at the end of a book, whereas Baidu
Tran slator ren ders it as "ruột thừa," aligning with
its medical meaning as a small organ at tac hed to
the in testines on the right side of the human body.
Con sequen tly, we have chosen to utilize Baidu
Tran slator for tran slation. To en sure ac curacy and
the quality of the tran slations, we then used GPT-4
(Ac hiam et al., 2023) and human evaluation, which
is chec ked by a lin guistic expert with a Ph D in
Chinese lin guistics for fact-chec king, tran slating
quality, and refinement.
3.1.3
Construc tion of Vie Med KG
The construc tion of Viet Med KG requires a num-
ber of processes such as En tity Disam biguation
and En tity Lin king. The core of the knowledge
graph are the trip le’s en tities, at tributes, and rela-
tion ships. The en tities and at tributes are com bined
and fed in to the knowledge graph through the popu-
lar graph database - Neo4j database (Miller, 2013)
to store data about nodes and relation ships. En-
tities have 5 labels in cluding disease, sym ptom,
treat ment, medicine, and advice correspon ding
to which relation ships in clude HAS_SYM PTOM,
HAS_TREAT MENT, USE_MEDICINE, HAS_
ADVICE, and IS_LIN KED_WITH. Each en tity
provides its own additional at tributes with detailed
in formation as Figure 4 shows. The construc ted
medical data knowledge graph in cludes 41,549
nodes and 42,112 relation ships. The detailed de-
scrip tion of the knowledge graph is shown in Table
3 and Table 4.
Vie Med KG is stored in Neo4j Graph Database,
a No SQL database that falls un der the category
of graph databases, adhering to the mat hematical
theory of trees. In Neo4j, nodes are rep resen ted
as vertices and relation ships as edges. A literature
review by (Ló pez and la Cruz, 2015), in dicates that
3
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint


Neo4j demonstrates superior performan ce in terms
of time respon se and provides shorter pat hfin ding
com pared to relational databases.
3.1.4
Benchmark Dataset for Question
An swering
Trip le creation
In construc ting a benchmark
dataset for question-an swering systems, the pro-
cess of trip le creation is pivotal. A trip le is com-
posed of three com ponents: a head, a relation, and
a tail. In the con text of a dataset cen tered on dis-
eases, the head rep resents the name of the disease,
the relation denotes the at tribute associated with
the disease, and the tail in dicates the value of that
at tribute. These trip les are then used to generate
various types of questions, in cluding 1-hop and 2-
hop questions, which assess the ability of question-
an swering systems to navigate different levels of
com plexity in the knowledge base.
We used the two sequen tial ap proac hes which
are label con catenation met hod and the usage of
Large Lan guage Model (LLM). The initial met hod
in volves con catenating labels from un seen trip les
to generate questions. For in stan ce, using the trip le
(“pertussis”, “peop le_easy_get”, “More com mon
in children”) would create a question such as “Per-
tussis have peop le easy get?”. Despite poten tially
generating gram matically in correct or non sen sical
questions, this ap proach effec tively im parts tex-
tual in formation to the model con cerning keywords
lin ked with the relations.
1-hop question dataset
For 1-hop question, we
designed 32 types of questions in total (see Table
5). In exploring the relation ship bet ween exten sive
medical in formation (an at tribute in the graph) and
disease iden tification, this study en coun tered chal-
len ges with question length. Utilizing all details
from at tributes resulted in overly long questions. To
address this, the GPT-4 lan guage model (Ac hiam
et al., 2023) was em ployed. GPT-4 offered two
fun ctionalities: 1) ran dom sum marization of an
at tribute, and 2) targeted selec tion of a key point
wit hin that at tribute. Both ap proac hes aimed to
shorten the question to un der 25 words while pre-
serving its core meaning.
2-hop question dataset
We designed 10 types
of questions (see Table 5). To address the issue of
lengthy questions, we em ployed a similar met hod-
ology as used for the 1-hop questions.
Creating
multip le
an swer
questions
Wegrouped questions of the same type from the
dataset and calculated the Jac card similarity
(Niwat tanakul et al., 2013) bet ween at tribute
values used in question creation. If the similarity
exceeded 0.9, we merged the an swers ac cord-
in gly. This process en sured that questions with
highly similar at tributes yielded merged an swers,
op timizing question diversity while main taining
relevan ce.
Generating natural-soun ding question using
LLM
We em ployed the GPT-4 lan guage model to
create natural-soun ding questions from those gen-
erated by the label con catenation met hod. Using
zero-shot prom pting, we instruc ted the model to
emulate doc tors or patients seeking disease in for-
mation. Figure 2 demonstrates the question genera-
tion process from trip les, in volving feeding pairs of
trip les and target questions derived from the train-
ing data.
By ap plying GPT-4 (Ac hiam et al., 2023) to our
training set, we harnessed its ability to en code re-
lation ships bet ween words and phrases, thus pro-
ducing coherent questions even for trip les with pre-
viously un seen relations. Subsequen tly, we man-
ually reviewed and eliminated non sen sical ques-
tions, and utilized uniform sam pling to establish
the benchmark. The dataset con sists of 4,232 ques-
tions, in cluding 2,164 one-hop questions and 2,068
two-hop questions. Table 6 provides a detailed
descrip tion of the benchmark.
3.2
Ret rieval-Augmen ted Generation (RAG)
with Viet Med KG
3.2.1
The Cyp her Query
Neo4j’s query lan guage is called Cyp her (Fran cis
et al., 2018). Cyp her is a dec larative query lan-
guage for graphs that uses graph pat tern-mat ching
as a main mec hanism for graph data selec tion for
both read-on ly and mutating operations. As an ex-
am ple, the query to ret rieve sym ptoms of pertussis
can be stated as follows:
START Disease=node:
Disease(disease_name={disease_name})
MATCH (Disease)-[: HAS_SYM PTOM] ->
(Sym ptom: disease_sym ptom)
WHERE Sisease. disease_name = 'pertussis'
RETURN Sym ptom. disease_sym ptom,
COUNT(*)
ORDER BY COUNT(*) DESC
4
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint


Head: Pertussis
Relation: peop le_easy_get
Tail: More com mon in
children
Label
Con catenation
Head: Ben zene poisoning
Relation: cure_probability
Tail: 75%
Head: Em physema
Relation: disease_cause
Tail: Long term exposure to
organic or inorganic dust,
harmful gases, smokers
Pertussis has peop le
easy get?
Ben zene poisoning
has cure probability?
Em physema has
cause by?
GPT-4
Which populations are more
suscep tible to pertussis?
How likely is it to be cured of
ben zene poisoning?
What are the causes of
em physema?
Figure 2: Overview of the procedure for question generation. The in put is a trip le from the KG, and the out put is a
natural lan guage question.
This
query
starts
bysearching
thein dex
called “Disease” for a node whose at tribute
“disease_name” is set to the con tents of the pa-
rameter “disease_name”.
It then uses pat tern
mat ching to find all sym ptoms associated with this
disease. The “WHERE” clause en sures that we are
specifically querying for the disease “pertussis”.
As a result, the query returns all sym ptoms as-
sociated with pertussis and how often they were
en coun tered during the traversal, which is also
the sort criterion. At tributes could be ac cessed
by “Sym ptom. disease_sym ptom”.
To en han ce the effec tiveness of Cyp her state-
ments in prac tice, leveraging the few-shot learning
capabilities of large lan guage models (LLMs) in-
volves presen ting exam ples that guide the model in
generating Cyp her statements. This ap proach facil-
itates the adap tation of Cyp her syn tax to specific
query requirements, en suring com patibility with
database struc tures and query out comes.
3.2.2
Augmen ting LLM an swer with RAG
and zero-shot prom pting
Figure 3 illustrates the architec ture of the Ret rieval-
Augmen ted Generation (RAG) system. The work-
flow begins with the user submit ting a question.
This question is then processed using a Cyp her
query and LLM to generate relevant queries. The
ret rieved nodes are used to query the knowledge
graph through Cyp her queries, extrac ting addi-
tional con textual in formation. The results are re-
turned in JSON format, after which LLM generates
an an swer based on the augmen ted query and the
con textual in formation provided by the knowledge
graph.
4
Experiments
4.1
Experiment Design
Researchers have been working on Question-
An swering (QA) system for Viet namese such as
(Tran et al., 2023). However, in this paper, we
propose the first-ever QA system that in corporates
Knowledge Graph (i. e. Vie Med KG) for medicine
in Viet namese. We evaluated our QA system using
a benchmark dataset designed for QA tasks based
on Vie Med KG. In our experiments, we em ployed
large lan guage models (LLMs), specifically GPT-4
(Ac hiam et al., 2023) and Gemini 1.0 Pro (Team
et al., 2023), using zero-shot prom pting to serve
as baseline for the benchmark. Subsequen tly, we
leveraged our RAG system with the GPT-4 and
Gemini 1.0 Pro as the generator to measure the
performan ce for both 1-hop and 2-hop benchmark
dataset.
To evaluate the ret rieval performan ce and deter-
mine the con tribution of ret rieved trip les to an swer
generation, we em ployed ac curacy as our primary
met ric. For assessing the overall performan ce of the
QA system, we utilized met rics in cluding BLEU
(Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE (Lin, 2004), and
METEOR (Lavie and Agarwal, 2007) scores.
4.2
Experimen tal Results and Analyses
The performan ces of ret rieval and question-
an swering are detailed in Tables 1 and 2, respec-
tively. When com pared to the zero-shot prompt-
ing capabilities of state-of-the-art lan guage mod-
els such as GPT-4 and Gemini 1.0 Pro, our sys-
tem exhibits a significant im provement in question-
an swering performan ce. Specifically, our proposed
RAG system en han ces the BLEU score of GPT-
4 by ap proximately 7.19 times and that of Gem-
ini 1.0 Pro by ap proximately 6.76 times for 1-hop
5
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint


Question
Query Knowledge Graph
Ask question with con text
Knowledge Graph
What are the sym ptoms of
pertussis?
LLM
The sym ptoms of pertussis in clude
spasmodic cough, chest tightness, low
fever, and cicada chirping sound
during in halation.
Cyp her
Query + LLM
Figure 3: Overview of the RAG system. The process begins with a user question processed through Cyp her and
LLM queries to ret rieve relevant knowledge graph nodes. An an swer is then generated using the augmen ted query
and con textual in formation.
questions, and by ap proximately 11.19 times for
GPT-4 and 5.83 times for Gemini 1.0 Pro for 2-hop
questions. These con siderable im provements come
with on ly a marginal in crease in in feren ce laten cy,
adding an average of 8.40 seconds for GPT-4 and
5.52 seconds for Gemini 1.0 Pro.
Model
1-hop
2-hop
GPT4
0.4143
0.4
Gemini 1.0 Pro
0.5075
0.4909
Table 1: Results for 1-hop and 2-hop ret rieval perfor-
man ce.
5
Con clusion
In this paper, we have in troduced the first knowl-
edge graph for Traditional Viet namese Medicine
(TVM), leveraging resources from Traditional Chi-
nese Medicine (TCM). Through systematic trans-
lation and filtration, we adap ted TCM knowledge
graphs to reflect TVM’s unique elements, address-
ing a gap in the documen tation of Viet namese med-
ical knowledge. Our knowledge graph, Vie Med KG,
serves as a foun dational resource for future research
and ap plications in the TVM domain. By providing
a curated benchmark for knowledge graph-based
question an swering, we have laid the groun dwork
for further develop ments in QA systems for tra-
ditional medicine. Our experiments demonstrate
the feasibility and poten tial of using advan ced lan-
guage models and ret rieval-augmen ted generation
tec hniques in this con text.
Referen ces
Josh Ac hiam, Steven Adler, San dhini Agarwal, Lama
Ahmad, Ilge Akkaya, Floren cia Leoni Aleman,
Diogo Almeida, Jan ko Altenschmidt, Sam Altman,
Shyamal Anadkat, et al. 2023. Gpt-4 tec hnical report.
ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:2303.08774.
Jacob An dreas, Marcus Rohrbach, Trevor Darrell, and
Dan Klein. 2016.
Learning to com pose neural
net works for question an swering.
ar Xiv prep rint
ar Xiv:1601.01705.
Anita Bui. 2019. Traditional viet namese medicine be-
tween chinese heritage and national tradition. Chi-
nese Medicine and Culture, 2(1):21–25.
Calvin Yu-Chian Chen. 2011.
Tcm database@ tai-
wan: the world’s largest traditional chinese medicine
database for drug screening in silico.
Plo S one,
6(1): e15939.
Jiyu Chen, Jin chuan Qian, Xin min Zhang, Zhihuan
Song, Chenying Wen, and Xueer Fan. 2023. Gpbp:
Pipeline extrac tion of en tities and relations for con-
struc tion of urban utility tun nel knowledge graph. In
6
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint


Model
1-hop
2-hop
BLEU
METEOR
ROUGE
BLEU
METEOR
ROUGE
GPT4
0.058
0.157
0.104
0.021
0.092
0.112
Gemini 1.0 Pro
0.051
0.14
0.123
0.035
0.126
0.118
GPT4 + RAG (ours)
0.417
0.552
0.508
0.235
0.325
0.298
Gemini 1.0 Pro + RAG (ours)
0.345
0.492
0.479
0.204
0.265
0.246
Table 2: Results for 1-hop and 2-hop question-an swering performan ce. We highlight the best result for each met ric.
2023 CAA Sym posium on Fault Detec tion, Supervi-
sion and Safety for Tec hnical Processes (SAFEP RO-
CESS), pages 1–6. IEEE.
Boya Cheng, Yuan Zhang, Dejun Cai, Wan Qiu, and
Don gxin Shi. 2018. Construc tion of traditional chi-
nese medicine knowledge graph using data mining
and expert knowledge. In 2018 In ternational Con fer-
en ce on Net work In frastruc ture and Digital Con tent
(IC-NIDC), pages 209–213.
Nadime Fran cis, Alastair Green, Paolo Guagliardo,
Leonid Libkin, Tobias Lin daaker, Vic tor Marsault,
Stefan Plan tikow, Mats Rydberg, Pet ra Selmer, and
An drés Taylor. 2018. Cyp her: An evolving query
lan guage for property graphs. In Proceedings of the
2018 In ternational Con feren ce on Management of
Data, SIGMOD ’18, page 1433–1445, New York,
NY, USA. Association for Com puting Mac hinery.
Fabian Galet zka, Jewgeni Rose, David Schlan gen, and
Jens Lehmann. 2021. Space efficient con text en cod-
ing for non-task-orien ted dialogue generation with
graph at ten tion tran sformer. In Proceedings of the
59th An nual Meeting of the Association for Com pu-
tational Lin guistics and the 11th In ternational Joint
Con feren ce on Natural Lan guage Processing (Vol-
ume 1: Long Papers), pages 7028–7041, On line.
Association for Com putational Lin guistics.
Kelvin Guu, Ken ton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasu-
pat, and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020. Realm: ret rieval-
augmen ted lan guage model pre-training. In Proceed-
ings of the 37th In ternational Con feren ce on Mac hine
Learning, ICML’20. JMLR. org.
Ta Duc Huy, Nguyen Anh Tu, Tran Hoang Vu,
Nguyen Phuc Minh, Nguyen Phan, Trung H. Bui, and
Steven Q. H. Truong. 2021. Vi MQ: A Viet namese
Medical Question Dataset for Healthcare Dialogue
System Develop ment, page 657–664. Sprin ger In ter-
national Publishing.
Gautier Izacard, Pat rick Lewis, Maria Lomeli, Lucas
Hosseini, Fabio Pet roni, Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-
Yu, Armand Joulin, Sebastian Riedel, and Edouard
Grave. 2024. At las: few-shot learning with ret rieval
augmen ted lan guage models. J. Mach. Learn. Res.,
24(1).
Min ki Kang, Jin Myung Kwak, Jin heon Baek, and
Sung Ju Hwang. 2022. Knowledge-con sistent di-
alogue generation with knowledge graphs.
Yun shi Lan, Shuohang Wang, and Jing Jiang. 2019.
Knowledge base question an swering with a mat ching-
aggregation model and question-specific con textual
relations. IEEE/ACM Tran sac tions on Audio, Speech,
and Lan guage Processing, 27(10):1629–1638.
Alon Lavie and Abhaya Agarwal. 2007. Meteor: an
automatic met ric for mt evaluation with high levels
of correlation with human judgments. In Proceed-
ings of the Second Workshop on Statistical Mac hine
Tran slation, Stat MT ’07, page 228–231, USA. Asso-
ciation for Com putational Lin guistics.
Pat rick Lewis,
Et han Perez,
Aleksan dra Piktus,
Fabio Pet roni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal,
Hein rich K¨ut tler,
Mike Lewis,
Wen-tau Yih,
Tim Rockt¨aschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe
Kiela. 2020.
Ret rieval-augmen ted generation for
knowledge-in ten sive nlp tasks. In Proceedings of
the 34th In ternational Con feren ce on Neural In for-
mation Processing Systems, NIPS ’20, Red Hook,
NY, USA. Curran Associates Inc.
Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. ROUGE: A pac kage for automatic
evaluation of sum maries.
In Text Sum marization
Bran ches Out, pages 74–81, Barcelona, Spain. Asso-
ciation for Com putational Lin guistics.
Yan huai Liu and Yan ling Sun. 2004.
China tradi-
tional chinese medicine (tcm) patent database. World
Patent In formation, 26(1):91–96.
Hai Long, Yan Zhu, Lirong Jia, Bo Gao, Jing Liu, Li-
hong Liu, and Hein rich Herre. 2019. An on tological
framework for the formalization, organization and
usage of tcm-knowledge. BMC Medical In formatics
and Decision Making, 19:79–89.
Fé lix Melchor San tos Ló pez and Eulogio San tos De
la Cruz. 2015. Literature review about neo4j graph
database as a feasible alternative for rep lacing rdbms.
In dustrial Data, 18:135–139.
Qiujie Lv, Guan xing Chen, Haohuai He, Ziduo Yang,
Lu Zhao, Kang Zhang, and Calvin Yu-Chian Chen.
2023. Tcmbank-the largest tcm database provides
deep learning-based chinese-western medicine exclu-
sion predic tion. Signal Tran sduc tion and Targeted
Therapy, 8(1):127.
Justin J Miller. 2013. Graph database ap plications and
con cepts with neo4j. In Proceedings of the south-
ern association for in formation systems con feren ce,
At lan ta, GA, USA, volume 2324, pages 141–147.
7
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint


Thanh-Hoang Nguyen-Vo, Tri Le, Duy Pham, Tri
Nguyen, Phuc Le, An Nguyen, Thanh Nguyen,
Thien-Ngan Nguyen, Vu Nguyen, Hai Do, et al.
2018. Viet herb: a database for viet namese herbal
species. Journal of chemical in formation and model-
ing, 59(1):1–9.
Sup hakit
Niwat tanakul,
Jat sada
Singthongchai,
Ekkac hai Naenudorn, and Supac hanun Wanapu.
2013.
Using of jac card coefficient for keywords
similarity.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-
Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a met hod for automatic evalu-
ation of mac hine tran slation. In Proceedings of the
40th An nual Meeting on Association for Com puta-
tional Lin guistics, ACL ’02, page 311–318, USA.
Association for Com putational Lin guistics.
Md Abdur Razzaka, Md Serajul Islamb, Sharowar Hos-
sainc, and Jin zhang Jiang. 2019.
Exploring and
learning en glish: An analysis of baidu and google
tran slation.
Md. Rony, Ricardo Usbeck, and Jens Lehmann. 2022.
Dialokg: Knowledge-struc ture aware task-orien ted
dialogue generation. Ar Xiv, abs/2204.09149.
Haitian Sun, Tania Bedrax-Weiss, and William Cohen.
2019. Pull Net: Open domain question an swering
with iterative ret rieval on knowledge bases and text.
In Proceedings of the 2019 Con feren ce on Em pirical
Met hods in Natural Lan guage Processing and the
9th In ternational Joint Con feren ce on Natural Lan-
guage Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP), pages 2380–
2390, Hong Kong, China. Association for Com puta-
tional Lin guistics.
Haitian Sun, Bhuwan Dhin gra, Man zil Zaheer, Kat hryn
Mazaitis, Ruslan Salakhut dinov, and William W Co-
hen. 2018. Open domain question an swering us-
ing early fusion of knowledge bases and text. ar Xiv
prep rint ar Xiv:1809.00782.
Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud,
Yon ghui Wu, Jean-Bap tiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu,
Radu Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, An drew M Dai,
An ja Hauth, et al. 2023.
Gemini: a family of
highly capable multimodal models. ar Xiv prep rint
ar Xiv:2312.11805.
Cong Dao Tran, Nhut Huy Pham, Anh Tuan Nguyen,
Truong Son Hy, and Tu Vu. 2023. Vi De BERTa: A
powerful pre-trained lan guage model for Viet namese.
In Fin dings of the Association for Com putational Lin-
guistics: EACL 2023, pages 1071–1078, Dubrovnik,
Croatia. Association for Com putational Lin guistics.
Jia Yao, Muyun Yang, Jun mao Meng, Don gqing Xiao,
Tiejun Zhao, and Sheng Li. 2012. How good is web
based mt: A case study on paper tit le tran slation. In
2012 In ternational Con feren ce on Asian Lan guage
Processing, pages 213–216. IEEE.
Wen peng Yin, Mo Yu, Bing Xiang, Bowen Zhou, and
Hin rich Sch¨ut ze. 2016. Sim ple question an swering
by at ten tive con volutional neural net work.
ar Xiv
prep rint ar Xiv:1606.03391.
Tong Yu, Jin ghua Li, Qi Yu, Ye Tian, Xiaofeng Shun,
Lili Xu, Ling Zhu, and Hon gjie Gao. 2017. Knowl-
edge graph for tcm health preservation: Design, con-
struc tion, and ap plications. Artificial in telligen ce in
medicine, 77:48–52.
Yic hong Zhang and Yon gtao Hao. 2024.
Tradi-
tional chinese medicine knowledge graph construc-
tion based on large lan guage models. Elec tronics,
13(7).
Yuyu Zhang, Han jun Dai, Zornit sa Kozareva, Alexan-
der Smola, and Le Song. 2018. Variational reasoning
for question an swering with knowledge graph. In
Proceedings of the AAAI con feren ce on artificial in-
telligen ce, volume 32.
Ziqiang Zheng, Yon gguo Liu, Yun Zhang, and Chuan-
biao Wen. 2020. Tcmkg: A deep learning based
traditional chinese medicine knowledge graph plat-
form. In 2020 IEEE In ternational Con feren ce on
Knowledge Graph (ICKG), pages 560–564.
Xuezhong Zhou, Yon ghong Peng, and Baoyan Liu.
2010. Text mining for traditional chinese medical
knowledge discovery: a survey. Journal of biomedi-
cal in formatics, 43(4):650–660.
Đức Siêu Đặng. 2003. Dạy và học từ Hán Việt ở trường
phổ thông. Giáo dục.
A
Descrip tion of Vie Med KG
HAS_SYM PTOM
HAS_ADVICE
IS_LIN KED_WITH
Disease
disease_name
disease_descrip tion
disease_category
disease_cause
Treat ment
cure_met hod
cure_department
cure_probability
Sym ptom
disease_sym ptom
check_met hod
peop le_easy_get
Advice
nut rition_do_eat
nut rition_recom mend_meal
nut rition_not_eat
disease_preven tion
Medicine
drug_detail
drug_com mon
drug_recom mend
HAS_TREAT MENT
IS_PRESCRIBED
Disease
disease_name
disease_descrip tion
disease_category
disease_cause
Figure 4: Graph Schema for Viet Med KG.
8
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint


Figure 5: Subgraph of Vie Med KG, visualized using Neo4j.
En tity Type
No. of En tities
disease
9,464
sym ptom
8,806
treat ment
8,806
medicine
8,806
advice
5,577
Total
41,549
Table 3: Num ber of En tities by Type.
Relation ship Type
No. of Relation ships
HAS_SYM PTOM
8,806
HAS_TREAT MENT
8,806
USE_MEDICINE
8,806
HAS_ADVICE
5,577
IS_LIN KED_WITH
10,117
Total
42,112
Table 4: Num ber of Relation ships by Type.
9
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint


1-hop question type
2-hop question type
disease_descrip tion_to_disease,
disease_sym ptom_to_cure_probability
disease_category_to_disease,
disease_sym ptom_to_nut rition_do_eat,
disease_cause_to_disease,
disease_sym ptom_to_nut rition_not_eat,
disease_sym ptom_to_disease,
disease_sym ptom_to_nut rition_recom mend_meal,
check_met hod_to_disease,
disease_sym ptom_to_check_met hod,
cure_department_to_disease,
disease_cause_to_cure_met hod,
cure_met hod_to_disease,
associated_disease_to_cure_met hod,
cure_department_to_disease,
associated_disease_to_nut rition_do_eat,
associated_disease_to_disease,
associated_disease_to_nut rition_not_eat,
nut rition_do_eat_to_disease,
disease_category_to_cure_department.
nut rition_recom mend_meal_to_disease,
nut rition_not_eat_to_disease,
disease_preven tion_to_disease,
associated_disease_to_disease,
drug_recom mend_to_disease,
disease_to_disease_descrip tion,
disease_to_disease_category,
disease_to_disease_cause,
disease_to_disease_sym ptom,
disease_to_check_met hod,
disease_to_peop le_easy_get,
disease_to_cure_met hod,
disease_to_cure_met hod,
disease_to_cure_probability,
disease_to_nut rition_do_eat,
disease_to_nut rition_recom mend_meal,
disease_to_nut rition_not_eat,
disease_to_disease_preven tion,
disease_to_drug_detail,
disease_to_drug_com mon,
disease_to_drug_recom mend,
disease_to_associated_disease.
Table 5: Question types of 1-hop and 2-hop questions.
Question
No. of an swers
No. of questions
per question
1
900
1-hop
2
500
3+
761
1
658
2-hop
2
410
3+
1,000
Table 6: Descrip tion of KGQA benchmark.
10
.
CC-BY-NC-ND 4.0 In ternational licen se
made available un der a
(which was not certified by peer review) is the aut hor/fun der, who has gran ted bio Rxiv a licen se to display the prep rint in perpetuity. It is
The copyright holder for this prep rint
this version posted August 9, 2024.
;
https://doi. org/10.1101/2024.08.07.606195
doi:
bio Rxiv prep rint