Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Con tents lists available at Scien ce Direct
Journal of Advan ced Research
journal homepage: www. elsevier. com/locate/jare
Evaluating current status of net work pharmacology for herbal medicine
focusing on iden tifying mec hanisms and therapeutic effects
Won-Yung Lee a,b,c,1 ,
a School of Korean Medicine, Won kwang University, Iksan 54538, Republic of Korea
b Research Cen ter of Traditional Korean Medicine, Won kwang University, Iksan 54538, Republic of Korea
c School of Korean Medicine, Woosuk University, Jeon ju 54986, Republic of Korea
Kwang-Il Park d,1 ,
d Department of Veterinary Medicine, Research In stitute of Life Scien ce, Gyeon gsang National University, Jin ju 52828, Republic of Korea
Seon-Been Bak e,f,1 ,
e School of Korean Medicine, Don gguk University, Gyeon gju 38066, Republic of Korea
f Department of Nut ritional Scien ce and Food Management, Ewha Womans University, Seoul 03760, Republic of Korea
Seun gho Lee c,1 , Su-Jin Bae a , Min-Jin Kim e ,
Sun-Dong Park e , Choon Ok Kim g ,
g Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Severan ce Hospital, Yon sei University Health System, Seoul 03722, Republic of Korea
Ji-Hwan Kim h ,
h School of Korean Medicine, Pusan National University, Yan gsan-si 50612, Republic of Korea
Young Woo Kim e,⇑, Chang-Eop Kim i,⇑
i School of Korean Medicine, Gac hon University, Seon gnam 13110, Republic of Korea
h i g h l i g h t s
Essen tial mec hanisms of herbal
com pounds are precisely iden tiﬁed
and thoroughly analyzed.
Rigorous evaluation of con sisten cy
ac ross various net work pharmacology
databases is con duc ted.
The choice of database is shown to
signiﬁcan tly im pact the
un derstan ding of known
mec hanisms.
Advan ced analytical tec hniques are
demonstrated to be crucial for
elucidating key mec hanisms.
The therapeutic poten tial of speciﬁc
herbs in treating prostate can cer is
validated in vit ro and in vivo.
a r t i c l e i n f o
Artic le history:
Received 5 July 2024
Revised 5 Decem ber 2024
Ac cep ted 24 Decem ber 2024
Available on line 25 Decem ber 2024
Keywords:
Net work pharmacology
Herbal medicine
Com prehen sive evaluation
Therapeutic mec hanisms
g r a p h i c a l a b s t r a c t
a b s t r a c t
In troduc tion: Net work pharmacology has gained signiﬁcant trac tion as a tool for iden tifying the mec ha-
nisms and therapeutic effects of herbal medicines. However, despite the usefulness of these ap proac hes,
their diversity un derscores the critical need for a systematic evaluation to en sure con sisten cy and relia-
bility.
Objec tives: We aimed to evaluate the net work pharmacological analyses, focusing on iden tifying the
mec hanisms and therapeutic effects of herbal medicines.
Met hods: We em ployed a com prehen sive ap proach in volving systematic data ret rieval, net work con-
struc tion, and analysis. Herbal com pounds and their targets were meticulously extrac ted from ﬁve dis-
tinct net work pharmacology databases to en sure exten sive coverage and high data reliability.
Advan ced net work-based met hods were used to iden tify key herbal targets and predict therapeutic
effects, thereby en ric hing the depth and breadth of the analysis. Experimen tal validation was performed
on prostate can cer models to substan tiate the com putational predic tions.
⇑ Correspon ding aut hors at: School of Korean Medicine, Gac hon University, Seon gnam 13110, Republic of Korea.
E-mail addresses: ywk@don gguk. ac. kr (Y. W. Kim), eop chang@gac hon. ac. kr (C.-E. Kim).
1 These aut hors con tributed equally to this work.
https://doi. org/10.1016/j. jare.2024.12.040
2090-1232/© 2024 Published by Elsevier B. V. on behalf of Cairo University.
This is an open ac cess artic le un der the CC BY licen se (http://creativecom mons. org/licen ses/by/4.0/).


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
In troduc tion
Herbal medicine, a com mon in terven tion in traditional Asian
medicine, is used to treat a wide spec trum of diseases and pat ho-
logical sym ptoms. Beyond its historical ap plications, it serves as
a valuable source for novel drug discovery, demonstrating its
poten tial in com bating con ditions such as COVID-19 and can cer
[1,2,3,4]. However, despite their rich history and poten tial, the
ap plication of herbal medicines is often based on em pirical knowl-
edge, and many of their mec hanisms remain elusive. One of the
primary reasons for this limitation is their com plex nature, com-
prising multip le com pounds that act on multip le targets [5,6]. To
address this com plexity, researchers have adop ted a net work phar-
macology ap proach that explores the relation ship bet ween drugs
and diseases wit hin the con text of a biological net work [7,8]. Con-
sequen tly, net work pharmacology (NP), by elucidating in tricate
in terac tions and mec hanisms, has become a pivotal tool in this
ﬁeld, wit nessing exponen tial growth in research over the past
decade.
Recent studies have sought to elucidate the mec hanisms of
ac tion of herbal medicines using NP. Lee et al. delved in to met hod-
ological trends in this analysis, iden tifying dominant databases
(DBs) and observing their evolution over time [9]. Zhang et al. pro-
vided a com prehen sive sum mary of the tools and DBs speciﬁcally
em ployed for NP studies, in cluding a com parison of the general
statistics of herbal medicines ac ross DBs [10]. Wang et al. show-
cased a met hod crafted by their research team for such analyses
and detailed its progression over the years [11]. Despite these
efforts, the prac tical utility of these analyses remains un deter-
mined due to a lack of quan titative evaluation of the met hods used
for net work pharmacological analyses. Wit hout a stan dardized
ap proach, the results from different studies can manifest signiﬁ-
cant varian ces, thereby causing in con sisten cies in con clusions
and poten tial misin terpretations in the ap plication of herbal med-
icines. This highlights the pressing need for a systematic assess-
ment of NP met hods speciﬁc to herbal medicine research.
In this study, we systematically evaluated net work pharmaco-
logical analyses of herbal medicines, focusing on their mec hanisms
and therapeutic effects. Here, we describe the charac teristics of
net work construc tion met hods ac ross various DBs and their ap pli-
cations in decip hering their mec hanisms and therapeutic effects.
Subsequen tly, we evaluated the con sisten cy of these net work con-
struc tion met hods to assess the poten tial disparities in the rep re-
sen tation of herbal in gredients and their target in formation
ac ross different DBs. Our analysis then explored the capacity to
recapitulate the known targets of herbal medicines ac cording to
data sources and met hods. We com prehen sively assessed which
net work-based ap proac hes were beneﬁcial for classifying both
the known and un discovered therapeutic effects of herbal medi-
cines. Finally, experimen tal validation was con duc ted on prostate
can cer, which emerged as a prioritized result with therapeutic
im portan ce. This study sheds light on the current state of net work
pharmacological analysis tec hniques and their relevan ce to herbal
medicine.
800
Results: The results of the recapitulating task for known herbal in gredient targets revealed distinct pat-
terns in performan ce and coverage based on net work construc tion and aggregation met hods. We per-
formed the same analysis to iden tify herbal targets and found that net work cen trality, path counts,
and downweighted path counts had their own pros and cons. By com paring net work-based met hods,
we found that con sidering the im pact on the multiscale in terac tome yielded the highest ac curacy in dis-
criminating known therapeutic effects. Using op timal con ditions, we suc cessfully iden tiﬁed new in dica-
tions for herbal medicines and validated these ﬁndings through follow-up in vit ro and in vivo
experiments.
Con clusion: This study presents the ﬁrst com prehen sive and critical evaluation of the current net work
pharmacology analyses in the ﬁeld of herbal medicine and provides valuable guidan ce for con tinued
advan ces in the elucidation of the mec hanisms and therapeutic effects.
© 2024 Published by Elsevier B. V. on behalf of Cairo University. This is an open ac cess artic le un der the CC
BY licen se (http://creativecom mons. org/licen ses/by/4.0/).
Met hods
Herb-com pound-target net work construc tion
Data ret rieval of herbal com pounds and their correspon ding
target in formation was performed using ﬁve rep resen tative NP-
DBs: TCMSP [12], TCM-mesh [13], BAT MAN-TCM [14], Sym Map
[15], and HERB [16]. For TCMSP, TCM-mesh, and BAT MAN-TCM,
data were direc tly ret rieved from each DB using the available
resources provided. The HERB database provides both mining data
from ot her databases and known therapeutic effect data. In this
study, we used the mining data from HERB, which will be referred
to as HERB (mining), while the known therapeutic effect data will
be discussed in subsequent sec tions. For Sym Map and HERB, com-
pound in formation for herbs and target in formation for com-
pounds were obtained using API calls in com bination with
Pyt hon’s ‘‘requests” module based on a cross-referen ce ID table
organized by in dividual en tities.
An ID map ping process was then con duc ted on the assem bled
dataset to en sure con sisten cy in the herb, com pound, and target
nomen clature ac ross diverse data sources. Herbal names were
map ped based on the cross-ID table provided by the HERB DB. This
process was initially curated by the ﬁrst aut hor and further vali-
dated through a com prehen sive review by the correspon ding
aut hor, both of whom are licen sed Korean medicine doc tors with
Ph Ds in herbal prescrip tion. Subsequen tly, the com pounds and tar-
gets were map ped to Pub Chem Com pound IDs (CIDs) and En trez
Gene IDs using cross-referen ce ID tables from each database and
the NCBI Gene DB, respec tively. In the subsequent stages of analy-
sis, on ly the data that were suc cessfully map ped with these IDs
(CIDs for com pounds and En trez Gene IDs for targets) were uti-
lized. This strategy en sured the use of a con sistent iden tiﬁcation
system ac ross all data used in subsequent analyses.
Multiscale in terac tome
The multiscale in terac tome is a net work of in terac tions among
proteins, bet ween proteins and biological fun ctions, and among
biological fun ctions them selves. The multiscale in terac tome used
in this study was obtained from the data built by Ruiz et al. [17].
For protein–protein in terac tions (PPIs), they assem bled 387,626
physical in terac tions bet ween 17,660 proteins from seven major
databases, in cluding the Biological General Repository for In terac-
tion Datasets, Database of In terac ting Proteins, and Human Refer-
en ce Protein In terac tome Map ping Project. For protein-biological
fun ction in terac tions, they com piled 34,777 associations bet ween


7,993 proteins and 6,387 biological fun ctions from the Gene On tol-
ogy (human version). For biological-biological fun ctional in terac-
tions,
they
construc ted
ahierarchy
ofbiological
fun ctions
con sisting of 22,545 associations and 9,798 biological fun ctions.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Known targets and therapeutic effects of herbs and com pounds
The known targets and therapeutic effects of herbs and com-
pounds were iden tiﬁed using the HERB DB. The known targets
are referred to as HERB (paper) in this study. This DB provides
manually curated data on known targets and therapeutic effects
associated with herbs and herbal com pounds. During data extrac-
tion, we ret rieved referen ce IDs from the HERB DB, which con-
tained data related to known targets and therapeutic effects. The
Pyt hon ‘‘requests” module was em ployed to ret rieve referen ces
sequen tially [18]. This allowed the collation of in formation per-
taining to experimen tally validated targets, denoted as ’paper-
mined target genes’ and ’paper-mined diseases’. The same proce-
dure was performed to ret rieve related proteins from the obtained
disease list. After data extrac tion, our data com prised 2,403
com pound-target in terac tions (CTIs) bet ween 219 com pounds
and 875 targets, 256 herb-target in terac tions bet ween 36 herbs
and 182 targets, and 267,924 disease-protein associations bet ween
320 diseases and 8,777 proteins.
Evaluation of NP-DB con sisten cy
The con sisten cy among NP-DBs was evaluated using the recall
met ric. Recall is a measure designed to assess the un com mon ness
of the observed similarities. Speciﬁcally, for NP-DBs con sisten cy
analysis, a recall met ric was used to evaluate the similarity of the
same herbs or com pounds ac ross different DBs com pared with
the similarity wit hin each DB [19]. This can be determined by cal-
culating the proportion of similarity values in a referen ce distribu-
tion that is lower than the similarity value of the same object
measured in anot her DB. The referen ce distribution is com posed
of Pearson’s correlation distribution for all en tities in the DB whose
similarity to a particular object is to be measured. Pearson’s corre-
lation coefﬁcient was calculated using one-hot en coding vec tors to
in dicate the presen ce or absen ce of herbal com pounds and their
in terac tions with target com pounds. High recall values correspond
to higher-than-expec ted similarity values, providing an assess-
ment of how well a particular pair of herbs or com pounds mat ches
relative to an ap prop riate null distribution.
Iden tifying key targets of herbs
Net work cen trality, sim ple path count (PC), and degree-
weighted pat hcount (DWPC) are com mon ly used met hods for
iden tify key targets of herbs. Net work cen trality, also called topo-
logical analysis, refers to the calculation of each target’s cen trality
in a subnet work built based on PPIs bet ween targets in a particular
herb [20,21]. En tities exhibiting high cen trality are usually con sid-
ered key targets. Net work cen trality measures typically in clude
degree, bet ween ness, and closeness cen tralities. Degree cen trality
quan tiﬁes the num ber of direct con nec tions main tained by a node
wit hin a net work. Bet ween ness cen trality estimates the extent to
which a node fun ctions as a bridge or broker in a net work. Close-
ness cen trality measures the proximity of a node to all ot her nodes
wit hin the net work. Cen trality measures were calculated using the
following equations.
Degreecen trality v
deg v
where
denotes a speciﬁc node and
rep resents the
num ber of edges con nec ted to node
801
Bet ween nesscen trality v
s–v–t
rst v
rstwhere
an drefer to nodes in the net work distinct from v,
denotes the num ber of shortest paths from node s to node t, and
denotes the num ber of shortest paths from node
to node
that pass-through node
Closenesscen trality v
1ud u v
where u in dicates a node in the net work and
signiﬁes the
shortest path distan ce from node v to node u.
PC refers to the num ber of paths of a speciﬁed metapath
bet ween the source and target nodes. However, PC does not adjust
to the extent of graph con nec tivity along the path. Paths traversing
high-degree nodes ac count for a large portion of PC, even though
high-degree nodes often rep resent biologically broad or vague
en tities with limited in formativeness. Con sequen tly, relying solely
on PC may lead to skewed in terpretations, poten tially overlooking
speciﬁc and biologically relevant in terac tions owing to the domi-
nan ce of high-degree nodes.
The DWPC algorithm mitigates the overrep resen tation of high-
degree nodes in PC calculations, thereby addressing the poten tial
limitation of the PC met hod [22]. The DWPC algorithm originally
downweights each path bet ween a source and target node by cal-
culating the path degree product (PDP) as follows:
1. Extrac ting all metaedge-speciﬁc degrees along the path
,
where each edge con tributing to the path adds two degrees.
2. Raise each degree to the negative
power, where
an dserves as the dam ping exponent.
3. Multip lying all exponen tiated degrees to generate the PDP.
In this met hod, we separated the dam ping parameter w in to
two distinct parameters,
andwhich ap ply to degrees pre-
sent in the herb-com pound path and com pound-target path,
respec tively. Con sequen tly, when raising each degree to a negative
power, we em ployed
for degrees along the herb-com pound
path and
for degrees along the com pound-target path. The
modiﬁed PDP and DWPC values were calculated as follows:
PDP path
d HC Dpath HC
dw HC
HCd CT Dpath CT
dw CT
CTwhere
an drefer to the paths bet ween the herb-
com pound pair and com pound-target pair,
an ddenote
the node degrees of
an dand
an drefer to
the dam ping parameters of
an drespec tively.
DWPC h t
path Paths h t
PDP path
where
refers to the herb,
denotes the target, and
refer
to the paths bet ween h and
This modiﬁcation allowed us to adjust the weighting of each
path type in dividually, thereby providing a more precise rep resen-
tation of the net work struc ture.
Net work-based met hods for iden tifying therapeutic effects
Three net work-based ap proac hes were em ployed to predict the
therapeutic effects of the herbal com pounds and herbs: protein
overlap, net work proximity, and multiscale in terac tome. Protein
overlap is based on the idea that in gredients with overlap ping tar-
gets and disease-related proteins are likely to exert therapeutic
effects. This can be calculated using the Jac card Similarity bet ween
the set of drug targets T and the set of disease proteins S:
vdeg v
v.
st
rsts
trst v
v.
d u v
(Dpath)
ww
0w HC
w CT,
w HCw CT
Dpath HC
Dpath CT
d HCd CT
w HCw CT
Dpath HC
Dpath CT ,
Dpath HC
Dpath CT ,
ht
Paths h t
t.


Performan ce measure
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
T
S
T
S
Net work proximity is based on the prin cip le that the closer the
targets of a com pound are to disease proteins in a human PPI net-
work, the more likely it is that the com pound will affect the disease
phenotype [23]. It is obtained by calculating the relative score of
the shortest path length bet ween the drug and disease based on
the referen ce distribution. Let T be the set of drug targets and S
be the set of disease proteins, where t
T and s
S rep resent
the in dividual targets and proteins, respec tively. d(s, t) denotes
the shortest path length bet ween nodes s and t in a net work. Net-
work proximity ﬁrst com putes the average closest distan ce
bet ween disease-associated proteins and in gredient targets as
follows:
dc S T
1
Tt T mins Sd s t
Next, a referen ce distan ce distribution is construc ted using the
values of
when S and T are ran dom ly permuted in to 1000
sets of proteins that match the size and degrees of the original dis-
ease proteins and targets in the net work. Finally, the relative score
is com puted by taking the z-score of
with respect to the ref-
eren ce distribution:
Zdcdc
ldc S T
rdc S T
where
an ddenote the mean and stan dard
deviation of the referen ce distribution, respec tively.
Multiscale in terac tome models com pare the im pact of drug
treat ment and disease perturbation on a net work that in tegrates
in terac tions bet ween proteins and biological fun ctions [17]. It pre-
dicts the disease association of drugs and natural products by cal-
culating the diffusion proﬁle
and then measures the
correlation distan ce bet ween them. A diffusion proﬁle is com puted
through a mat rix formulation with a power iteration as follows:
r k 1
1a s
a r k M
sj J
r k
jwhere
denotes the diffusion proﬁles at k-th state
denotes
the probability of the walker con tinuing its walk at a given step
rat her than restarting
denotes a restart vec tor that sets
the probability that the walker will jump to each node after a
restart, and
denotes a biased tran sition mat rix derived from a
direc ted multiscale in terac tome and set of scalar weights that
en code the relative likelihood.
These procedures are repeated un til the con vergen ce of the
power iteration com putation is as follows:
r k 1
r k
1e
where
denotes the toleran ce parameter and was set to
which is the same value as that in the previous study
[17].
The correlation distan ce of drug and disease diffusion proﬁle is
calculated as follows:
1r c
r c
r d
r d
r c
r c
2r d
r d
2where r(c) and r(d) denote the diffusion proﬁles of the drug and
disease, respec tively.
802
Performan ce evaluation was con duc ted un der two main scenar-
ios wit hin our study. First, we assessed whet her the predic ted tar-
gets of herbs or com pounds derived from net work construc tion
and analyses correspon ded to the known targets. Second, it was
used to evaluate the predic tive performan ce of known therapeutic
effects based on the targets of herbs or com pounds using various
met hods.
The choice of the evaluation met ric depen ded on the nature of
the predic ted out comes. For binary predic tions (i. e., the in terac tion
bet ween targets and herbs/com pounds or predic tions based on the
percen tile threshold of net work cen trality or PC), we used met rics
such as the Mat thews Correlation Coefﬁcient (MCC), precision, cov-
erage, and recall. These values were calculated using the following
formulae:
MCC
TP
TN
FP
FN
TP
FP
TP
FN
TN
FP
TN
FN
Precision
TP
TP
FP
Coverage
TP
TP
FN
Recall
TP
TP
FNwhere TP rep resents true positives, TN rep resents true negatives, FP
rep resents false positives, and FN rep resents false negatives.
For con tinuous predic tions (i. e., predic tions about known herbs
based on DWPC or predic tion scores for the therapeutic effects of
known herbs/com pounds), performan ce was evaluated using the
Area Un der the Receiver Operating Charac teristic curve (AUROC)
and Area Un der the Precision-Recall curve (AUPR). These met rics
provide an overall measure of predic tion performan ce, balan cing
the trade-off bet ween sen sitivity and speciﬁcity for AUROC and
precision and recall for AUPR.
Chemicals and reagents
An ti-Bcl-2, an ti-Bax, an ti-Cdk2, an ti-Cdk6, an ti-p19, an ti-p21,
and an ti-p27 an tibodies were purchased from San ta Cruz Biotech-
nology (Dallas, TX). An ti-Mcl-1, an ti-caspase-3, an ti-PARP, an ti-
STAT3, an ti-Cyc lin D1, and an ti-b-ac tin were purchased from Cell
Signaling Tec hnology (Dan vers, MA). HRP-con jugated an ti-rabbit
Ig G and an ti-mouse Ig G an tibodies were ac quired from En zo Life
Scien ces (Farmin gdale, NY). 3-(4,5-dimet hylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diph
enyl-tet razolium bromide (MTT) and crystal violet solution were
purchased from Sigma-Aldrich (St. Louis, MO). An nexin V/propid-
ium iodide was purchased from BD Bioscien ce (San Jose, CA). Puer-
ariae Radix (PR), Lit hospermum Eryt hrorhizon (LE), and Granati
Fruc tus (GF) are medicinal herbs certiﬁed by the Korea FDA and
were sourced from an h GMP facility (Non glim Saen gyak, Seoul,
KOREA). The extracts of these herbs were prepared ac cording to
previously described met hods [24].
Cell lines and cell culture
PC3 and LNCap cells (obtained from the American Type Culture
Collec tion, Roc kville, MD) were cultured in RPMI 1640 medium
sup plemen ted with 10% fetal bovine serum, 50 lg/m L strep to-
, dc s t ,
dc S T
dc s t
ldc S T
rdc S T
r
R V
r k
, a
, s
R V
Me
1
10 6 ,


mycin, and 50 units/m L penicillin. The cells were cultured at 37 °C
with 5% CO2 in a humidiﬁed at mosphere.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Animal housing and xenograft experiments
Six-week-old male BALB/c nude mice (18–20 g) were purchased
from Sam tako Inc. (Osan, Republic of Korea). Mice were housed at
22 ± 3 °C and 54% ± 5% relative humidity con ditions in a 12/12h
light and dark-con trolled room (light: 7:00–19:00h, dark: 19:00–
7:00h). The mice were provided ad libitum ac cess to rodent food
and water. All experimen tal animal procedures were ap proved by
the Gyeon gsang National University In stitutional Animal Care
and Use Com mit tee (GNU-240228-M0048) and con duc ted in
ac cordan ce with the guidelines of the National In stitutes of Health
(NIH publication).
PC3 cells were grown to 80% conﬂuen ce and harvested for xeno-
graft experiments. The cells were resuspen ded in phosphate-
buffered saline at a con cen tration of 2
107 cells/ml. Each mouse,
aged 7 weeks, was subcutaneously in jec ted with 1 m L of the cell
suspen sion on the left side. The mice were grouped and allowed
for the tumors to grow to a target volume of 200 mm3 . Upon reach-
ing 200 mm3 tumor volume, the drug group was orally adminis-
tered PR, LE, and GF at doses of 500 and 1500 mg/kg/body
weight three times a week for 15 days. Each con trol group was
orally administered with (vehic le) and the positive con trol group
was in traperitoneally in jec ted with 8 mg/kg/day doxorubicin three
times a week. Tumor growth and in hibition were measured daily
using digital calipers. Tumor volume was calculated using the fol-
lowing formula: tumor volume (mm3 ) = tumor diameter
short
diameter2/2. At the end of the animal experiment (15 days), the
mice were sac riﬁced, and the tumors were dissec ted.
Cell proliferation/viability assay
PC3 and LNCa P cells were cultured in a 48-well plate at a den-
sity of 5
103 cells per well for 24h. Subsequen tly, PR, LE, and FPG
were each treated at various con cen trations for 24, 48, and 72h.
Following the in cubation period, MTT treat ment was con duc ted
for 2 h at 37 °C. After in cubation, the medium was removed, and
300 l L of DMSO was added to each well to dissolve the formazan
crystals. Absorban ce was determined at 570 nm using an ELISA
mic rop late reader (Agilent Tec hnologies, San ta Clara, California).
Clonogenic assay
PC3 and LNCa P cells were plated in a 6-well plate at a den sity of
1
103 cells per well and treated with PR, LE, or FPG for 24h. Sub-
sequen tly, the medium was rep laced with drug-free medium, and
the cells were cultured for an additional 8 days. After an 8-day
in cubation period, the medium was suc tioned, and the cells were
ﬁxed with 4% formalin. The ﬁxed cells were stained with 1% crystal
violet solution and air-dried at room tem perature.
Flow cytomet ry
PC3 and LNCa P cells were plated in a 6-well plate at a den sity of
1
105 cells per well for 24h. Subsequen tly, PR, LE, and FPG were
administered to the cells at speciﬁed con cen trations for 72h, fol-
lowed by cell harvesting using tryp sin. The cells were stained with
An nexin V/propidium iodide (BD Bioscien ces, San Jose, CA) ac cord-
ing to the manufac turer’s instruc tions. The stained cells were
assessed using an Ac curi C6 ﬂow cytometer (Ac curi Cytometers
Inc., Ann Arbor, MI) and 10,000 events were recorded.
803
Im munoblot analysis
PC3 and LNCa P cells were plated in a 60Ø dish at a con cen tra-
tion of 3
105 cells. Subsequen tly, PR, LE, and FPG were adminis-
tered at speciﬁed con cen trations for 72h. Cell lysates were
prepared using RIPA buffer at 4 °C, and protein quan tiﬁcation of
the lysates was performed using a BCA assay kit (Thermo Fisher
Scien tiﬁc Inc., Waltham, MA). The quan tiﬁed proteins were sepa-
rated by sodium dodecyl sulfate–polyac rylamide gel elec trop hore-
sis and subsequen tly tran sferred on to a PVDF mem brane. After
sequen tially at tac hing primary and secon dary an tibodies to the
tran sferred mem brane, chemiluminescent signals were cap tured
using a Chemi Doc image analyzer (Vilber Lourmat, Fran ce).
Scratch wound healing assay
PC3 and LNCa P cells were in cubated in a 24-well plate un til
they reac hed ap proximately 90% conﬂuen cy. Subsequen tly, a
wound (a mono line) was created by scrat ching the surface using
a 200 l L pipet te tip. The process of co-culturing cells with PR, LE,
or FPG at speciﬁed con cen trations for 72h was observed using an
automated mic roscope (Bio Tek Lion heart, Winooski, VT).
Statistical analysis
Statistical analyses of in vit ro and in vivo experiments were per-
formed by chec king the normal distribution of the data and con sid-
ering the num ber of groups un der in vestigation. For two-sam ple
evaluations, normality was assessed using the Shapiro–Wilk test.
Subsequen tly, a two-tailed Student’s t-test was con duc ted for pair-
wise com parison of groups exhibiting a normal distribution,
whereas the Mann–Whit ney U test was used when the normality
assum ption was not met. Similarly, for com parisons in volving mul-
tip le groups, normality was ﬁrst examined using the Shapiro–Wilk
test. Datasets con forming to a normal distribution were then ana-
lyzed using one-way ANOVA coup led with Dun nett’s test; in
in stan ces where normality was not observed, the Kruskal–Wallis
ANOVA with Dunn’s post hoc test was ap plied. In cases where
the effects of different treat ments and their in terac tions were eval-
uated, two-way ANOVA was em ployed. This met hod ac coun ted for
the variability bet ween different treat ment groups and the in terac-
tion effects of com bined treat ments. The criteria for establishing
statistical signiﬁcan ce were set at p < 0.05 or p < 0.01.
Results
Overview of net work construc tion and analysis
NP-DBs are primary resources for construc ting net works of her-
bal medicines. They offer com prehen sive in formation about the
com pounds and targets of herbal medicines, enabling researchers
to build net works of speciﬁc herbal medicines. In this sec tion, we
sum marize the net work construc tion and analysis met hods pro-
vided by rep resen tative NP-DBs: TCMSP, BAT MAN-TCM, TCM-
Mesh, Sym Map, and HERB (Table 1. These DBs facilitate NP analysis
of in dividual herbs, which many researchers have utilized and
cited in their studies. These DBs also provide raw ﬁles or APIs, facil-
itating large-scale analyses.
Net work pharmacological analysis of herbal medicines usually
begins with the construc tion of herb-com pound net works. Most
NP-DBs con tain in gredient in formation from databases such as
TCMID [25] and TCM-ID (Table 1). NP-DBs typically assign a unique
ID to each com pound and provide the correspon ding Pub Chem CID.
This aids researchers in iden tifying the properties of com pounds
and map ping additional in formation for subsequent analyses.


Notably, TCMSP offers data on drug-likeness (DL) and predic ted
oral bioavailability (OB) of com pounds, en han cing the ability to
screen poten tial bioac tive com pounds [26]. Ap proximately one-
third of the pertinent studies em ployed com pounds surpassing
the suggested thresholds (i. e., drug-likeness and oral bioavailabil-
ity above 0.18 and 0.3, respec tively) for their analyses [27,28].
These thresholds were used to maximize bioac tive com pound
extrac tion while main taining a manageable num ber of can didates
[29]. This in formation was in tegrated in to Sym Map and HERB for a
com prehen sive overview of herbal medicine bioavailability.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Table 1
Descrip tion, statistics, and met hods of rep resen tative databases that provide net work pharmacological analysis for herbal medicines. H-C: herb-com pound associations, C-T:
com pound-target associations. *Predic tion met hod.
H-C
C-T
A system pharmacology plat form that
provides in formation on in gredients,
targets, and diseases of herbal
medicines.
499 herbs, 29,384
in gredients, 3,311
targets
Drugbank, HIT, and
Sys DT*
TCMSP (2014)
Literature search
tcmsp-e. com/
tcmsp. php
(24735618)
8,159 herbs, 25,210
in gredients, 14,298
targets
BAT MAN-TCM (2016)
A bioin formatics analysis tool for
molecular mec hanisms of TCM
TCMID
Drug Bank, KEGG, TTD,
and Similarity score*
bionet. ncpsb.
org. cn/bat man-
tcm
(26879404)
6,235 herbs, 383,840
in gredients, 14,298
targets
TCM-mesh (2017)
A system for providing net work
pharmacological analysis for TCM
TCMID
STITCH
bionet. ncpsb.
org. cn/bat man-
tcm
(28588237)
698 herbs, 25,975
in gredients, 20,965
targets
HIT, TCMSP, HPO,
Drug Bank, and NCBI
databases
TCMID, TCMSP, and TCM-
ID
Sym Map (2019)
An in tegrative database of TCM
en han ced by sym ptom map ping
sym map. org
(30380087)
7,263 herbs, 28,212
in gredients, 12,933
targets
Sym Map, TCMID 2.0,
TCMSP 2.3, and TCM-ID
et al.
HERB (2021)
A high-throughput experiment- and
referen ce-guided database of TCM
Sym Map, HIT, TCMSP,
and TCMID
herb. ac. cn
(33264402)
The subsequent phase of net work construc tion in volved iden ti-
fying the targets of com pounds found in the herbal medicines
(Fig. 1A). The sources of target in formation for herbal com pounds
can be broadly categorized in to two primary types: experimen tally
validated and predic ted. Databases such as the Herbal In gredient
Target [30,31] and Drug Bank [32] are typically em ployed to gat her
experimen tally validated targets; they house in formation curated
manually from the literature based on in vit ro or bioc hemical
experimen tal results. However, a poten tial limitation of this
ap proach is the sparse nature of data on these experimen tally val-
idated targets. Relying solely on these targets limits the scope of
herbal medicine analysis. Thus, NP-DBs provide predic tive target
in formation for herbal medicine com ponents using various meth-
ods. For in stan ce, Yu et al. proposed the Sys DT model [33] to fore-
cast CTIs using both known and un known com pound-target
associations alon gside protein and com pound descrip tors. TCMSP
uses this model to predict the targets of Chinese medicinal in gredi-
ents. Liu et al. in troduced a CTI predic tion tec hnique based on com-
pound and target similarity scores [34]. BAT MAN-TCM em ploys
this met hod to iden tify the targets of herbal medicinal in gredients.
TCM-Mesh curates the target data of herbal medicine com ponents
by in corporating in formation from STITCH [35], which aggregates
scores from various sources, in cluding experiments, predic tions,
DB con sultations, and text mining.
The construc ted net work was analyzed to un cover the key
mec hanisms of ac tion of the herbs. To iden tify key targets,
researchers often construct protein–protein in terac tion (PPI) sub-
net works by map ping herbal medicine targets on to the global PPI
net work (Fig. 1B). Wit hin these target-speciﬁc PPI subnet works,
net work cen trality analysis is performed to iden tify hub nodes that
play cen tral and signiﬁcant roles in the net work struc ture, assum-
ing these are key targets of herbal medicines [36]. Typically,
researchers measure various properties such as degree cen trality,
closeness cen trality, and bet ween ness cen trality, which in dicate
the im portan ce of nodes in a net work. Targets exhibiting cen trality
values above certain thresholds are usually con sidered key targets.
PC analysis, similar to degree analysis, assumes that targets with
overlap ping in terac tions with in gredients are likely to be key tar-
gets [37,38]. This analysis allows for the con sideration of the
cumulative effects of herbal com pounds on the targets. It com putes
the num ber of PCs from the herbs to the targets and selects those
where the num ber exceeds a certain threshold, such as the median
value. However, a poten tial limitation is treating all path counts
(PCs) equally, regardless of whet her they originate from com mon
in gredients or those with numerous targets. High-degree nodes
often rep resent biologically general or non speciﬁc en tities, offering
limited speciﬁc in formation [22]. Therefore, downweighting PCs
associated with high-degree nodes can reﬁne the analysis, poten-
tially
leading
toa
more
ac curate
un derstan ding
ofkey
mec hanisms.
804
Net work-based ap proac hes also play a crucial role in leveraging
the iden tiﬁed herbal targets to iden tify the therapeutic effects of
herbal medicines. The prin cipal or promising ap proac hes among
the net work-based met hods in clude protein overlap, net work
proximity, and multiscale in terac tome ap proac hes (Fig. 1C). Pro-
tein overlap is based on the hypot hesis that herbal medicines that
share targets in speciﬁc diseases exhibit therapeutic efﬁcacy [39].
Net work proximity hypot hesizes that herbal medicines with tar-
gets close to the disease proteins in the net work exert therapeutic
effects [23]. Net work proximity em ploys z-scores to quan tify the
relative closeness of herbal targets to diseased proteins by com par-
ing the observed distan ces with the distribution of distan ces from
ran dom ly selec ted proteins. The multiscale in terac tome refers to a
net work con sisting of physical in terac tions bet ween proteins and a
hierarchy of biological fun ctions [17]. One study found that simu-
lating the propagation of a com pound or disease on a multiscale
in terac tome demonstrated state-of-the-art performan ce in pre-
dic ting therapeutic effects and un covered key mec hanisms. Using
this framework, Bak et al. suc cessfully iden tiﬁed the ac tive com-
pounds in Bup leuri Radix and their key mec hanisms against oxida-
tive liver in jury [40].
Con sisten cy analysis ac ross NP-DBs
We explored the charac teristics and discrepan cies of the in gre-
dients and target in formation wit hin the NP-DBs. We ﬁrst mea-


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
sured the MCC values bet ween known targets and those available
in each DB, building on the herb and herbal in gredient analyses
described in the previous sec tion. Our analysis focused on 42 com-
mon ly used herbs in the East Asian region, each con taining at least
three in gredients, along with 36 herbal in gredients for which tar-
get in formation is available in all NP-DBs. This selec tion criterion
aimed to analyze herbal medicines com mon ly used in prac tice,
addressing issues related to their prac tical utilization. We com-
pared the num ber of in gredients per herb ac ross selec ted DBs
and found that the average num ber of in gredients per herb was
129.6 (Fig. 2A). Speciﬁcally, Sym Map and HERB had higher counts,
Fig. 1. Analytical tec hniques utilized in net work pharmacology analysis. (A) Com pound-target predic tion met hods in net work pharmacology database. Chemogenomic
ap proach predicts in terac tions using vec tors formed by con catenating the features of com pounds and their targets. En sem ble ap proach relies on a com bined score com puted
by en sem bling scores derived from heterogeneous sources. Similarity score utilizes the maximum likelihood ratio based on various similarity scores for query com pound-
target pairs. (B) Herb-target association iden tiﬁcation. Net work cen trality iden tiﬁes key targets wit hin the target net work by evaluating node percen tiles for degree,
closeness, and/or bet ween ness and selec ting those surpassing a speciﬁc threshold. Pat hcount threshold designates key targets based on the presen ce of a speciﬁed or greater
num ber of paths from an herb to that target. Degree-weighted path count downweights the pat hcount for com pounds found in many herbs (herb-com pound degree, d HC) and
com pounds with multip le targets (com pound-target degree, d CT). The exam ple on the right panel illustrates the com putation of DWPC values for herb-target pairs en closed
wit hin the box, using parameters w Hc= 0.5 and w CT= 1. (C) Com pound-disease predic tion met hods. Protein overlap calculates the overlap ping targets bet ween herb targets and
disease-related targets. Net work proximity calculates the relative distan ce bet ween herb targets and disease-related targets in protein–protein net works. Multiscale
in terac tome measures the inﬂuen ce of disease or herb/com pound targets on the multiscale in terac tome and then calculates the distan ce bet ween them.
805whereas BAT MAN-TCM, TCM-Mesh, and HIT had fewer in gredi-
ents. We also iden tiﬁed 80 com mon in gredients ac ross all DBs,
whereas 903 in gredients were unique to speciﬁc DBs (Sup plemen-
tary Fig. 1). To assess the im pact of these frequen cy discrepan cies,
we performed con sisten cy analysis by calculating the relative
ran king of correlations for the same herb ac ross different DBs. This
analysis presup poses that if in gredient in formation con sisten tly
ap pears ac ross DBs for a speciﬁc herb, there should be a higher cor-
relation in the in gredient in formation for that herb than for differ-
ent herbs in separate DBs. We found that, notably, the on ly
excep tions were all pairs in volving the HIT DB; for all ot her pairs,


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 2. Charac teristics and con sisten cy of in formation ac ross various net work pharmacology databases. Herb-com pound (up per ﬁgure) and com pound-target (lower
ﬁgure) charac teristics by database. In each subﬁgure: the left panel displays the distribution of associations by database; the cen tral panel highlights frequen tly oc curring
en tities wit hin the associations; and the right panel shows a correlation heat map of herbs or in gredients bet ween database pairs (lower trian gle), paired with a distribution
plot for recall percen tiles (up per trian gle). Wit hin each correlation heat map, the diagonal line rep resents the correlation values for the in gredients of iden tical herbs and the
target in formation of the in gredients bet ween the database pairs. Each distribution plot in dicates the proportion of sam ples that ac hieved a recall value of 95% or higher.
806


the recall rate exceeded 90% in 10 out of 15 DB pairs. This suggests
that the differen ces in herbal in gredient in formation ac ross DBs
may have a limited im pact.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
We further explored whet her a similar pat tern existed in the
target in formation for the selec ted in gredients. We coun ted the
num ber of targets in the in gredients and found that even for the
same in gredient groups, the num ber of targets varied signiﬁcan tly
bet ween DBs (Fig. 2B). Although on ly 189 targets were con sisten tly
iden tiﬁed ac ross all DBs, speciﬁc DBs offered up to 1,662 unique
targets (Sup plemen tary Fig. 2). For quan titative assessment, we
performed a con sisten cy analysis by com puting the relative rank-
ings of correlations bet ween in gredients ac ross pairs of DBs. Nota-
bly, we observed low correlation values for the same in gredients
ac ross different DB pairs. Our recall analysis showed that, even
when performing the same analysis, none of the DB pairs had a
recall rate exceeding 90%. This in dicates that the target in formation
for the same in gredient can diverge, depen ding on the DB used for
the analysis. Our ﬁndings highlight the urgent need for a com pre-
hen sive, large-scale analysis of NP-DBs.
Im pact of NP-DBs on recapitulating known mec hanisms
To evaluate the effec tiveness of the target in formation provided
by the NP-DBs, we con duc ted a recapitulation task focused on the
known targets of herbs and their in gredients. Therefore, we
grouped all in gredient-target and herb-target associations in to
known and un known associations. Notably, the den sity of known
associations was low (1.3% for in gredient-target and 3.8% for
herb-target), and un known associations also con tained poten tially
positive sam ples. Although these con ditions pose obstac les to
ac curate performan ce evaluation, they still provide valuable
in sights in to the charac teristics of the in formation source and anal-
ysis met hod.
We ﬁrst measured MCC values bet ween known targets and
those available in each DB, based on the herb and herbal in gredient
analyses described in the previous sec tion. All DBs out performed
the chan ce level, with the TCM-Mesh ac hieving the highest score
of 0.14 (Fig. 3A, up per panel). We also measured the coverage of
each DB to predict in gredients with known targets. On average,
the DBs ac hieved a coverage of 0.40, with HERB and Sym Map nota-
bly stan ding out at 0.83 and 0.50, respec tively. These ﬁndings in di-
cated that the reliability and coverage of herbal com pounds
exhibited unique pat terns ac ross different DBs.
We further analyzed the chan ges in recapitulation performan ce
based on the com binations and aggregation met hods ac ross the
NP-DBs (Fig. 3B, up per panel). Initially, we found that in tersec ting
the target in formation from TCM-Mesh and HERB yielded the high-
est precision score (0.278). Among com binations with coverage
greater than 0.5, uniting data from TCMSP, TCM-Mesh, Sym Map,
and HERB showed the best performan ce, with an MCC of 0.07.
We observed minimal chan ges in performan ce when com paring
union and in tersec tion met hods for aggregating target in formation,
with all cases having an MCC of 0.06. However, when using the
in tersec tion met hod, we observed in creased precision at the
expen se of reduced coverage, whereas the union ap proach yielded
the op posite result. As the num ber of com bined plat forms
in creased, we observed a more pronoun ced tradeoff relation ship
bet ween the MCC value and coverage.
We exten ded the analysis to evaluate the performan ce of each
NP-DB and their com binations in recapitulating known target
in formation at the herb level. Our results demonstrated that all
DBs main tained coverage exceeding half, while ac hieving a perfor-
man ce that surpassed chan ce level (Fig. 3A, lower panel). Speciﬁ-
cally, the highest coverage and MCC values were observed when
HERB was used. In con trast, TCMSP displayed the lowest values
for both met rics. Like our ﬁndings at the in gredient level, we
observed a tradeoff bet ween precision and recall based on the
aggregation met hod used for NP-DBs at the herb level (Fig. 3B,
lower panel). Overall, our results highlighted that the met hods
and com bination strategies em ployed to construct net works for
herbal medicines can signiﬁcan tly inﬂuen ce both predic tive perfor-
man ce and coverage.
807
Inﬂuen ce of analytical tec hniques on recapitulating known
mec hanisms
We then assessed how net work analysis tec hniques inﬂuen ced
the recapitulation performan ce of known mec hanisms in herbal
targets. Initially, we explored whet her PPI net work analysis of
the herbal targets could help elucidating these mec hanisms. Sub-
net works were construc ted with targets from each DB as nodes
and known PPIs forming the edges. Subsequen tly, three types of
net work cen trality (degree, bet ween ness, and closeness) were
measured for each node. We then evaluated the recapitulating per-
forman ce while varying the percen tile thresholds for net work cen-
trality, classifying targets as ‘‘known” when they exceeded the
threshold, and ‘‘un known” ot herwise. The results in dicated that
as the cen trality score in creased, the MCC values generally
dec reased ac ross most DBs. This trend was particularly evident
for BAT MAN-TCM, TCM-Mesh, and HERB. However, Sym Map and
TCMSP showed ten den cies for in creased MCC values wit hin certain
cen trality thresholds (0.4–0.8). Our ﬁndings in dicate that the ben-
eﬁts of using net work cen trality analysis in target protein net-
works
vary
depen ding
on the
speciﬁc
con ditions
and
DB,
suggesting that this ap proach may not always be the most effec tive
for iden tifying core herbal targets.
Next, we focused on variations in performan ce for recapitulat-
ing herbal targets based on path count (PC) percen tile thresholds.
Initially, we observed a con tinuous dec line in the MCC value start-
ing from a PC threshold of 0.5 (Fig. 4B). However, precision exhib-
ited a slight in crease wit hin the 0.5–0.8 threshold ran ge, while
recall con sisten tly dec reased. Furthermore, we in vestigated how
downweighting PCs, particularly those in volving high-degree
nodes, inﬂuen ced the elucidation of key herbal targets. Using the
DWPC algorithm, we performed the same analysis ac ross a wide
ran ge of thresholds for the weight of the herb-in gredient path
and in gredient-target path
. We found that, as both
theand
thresholds in creased, the AUROC values also gen-
erally in creased (Fig. 4C). Speciﬁcally, our ﬁndings in dicated that,
except for the TCM-Mesh for
and TCMSP for
em ploying
the DWPC algorithm to downweight PCs generally con tributed to
performan ce
en han cement
ac ross
most
DBs
(Sup plemen tary
Fig. 3). By exploring various com binations of weighting parame-
ters, we determined the op timal performan ce when
an dvalues were 1 and 0.4, respec tively. By leveraging the op timal con-
ditions, we determined the DWPC percen tile threshold to recapit-
ulate known herbal targets. Com puting the DWPC percen tiles for
the selec ted herbal targets and assessing the MCC for each thresh-
old revealed that the 40% DWPC threshold con sisten tly yielded the
highest MCC values (Fig. 4D). These ﬁndings suggest that the her-
bal mec hanisms can be iden tiﬁed more ac curately by carefully
con sidering the weight of the PC.
Evaluating the predic tive performan ce of net work models in
therapeutic effects
We further evaluated the utility of various net work-based
ap proac hes to iden tify the therapeutic effects of herbal medicines.
Three com mon ly used or poten tially ap plicable met hods, protein
overlap, net work proximity, and multiscale in terac tome, were con-
sidered. Using these met hods, we calculated scores for all possible
pairs of herbal in gredients and diseases, as well as those for herbs
(w HC)
(w CT)
w HCw CT
w HCw CT,
w HCw CT


and diseases (Fig. 5A). We then performed a discrimination task
using these scores to distin guish bet ween the known and un known
associations. Notably, similar to our previous tasks, the den sity of
known disease associations was quite low; therefore, the perfor-
man ce in this con text might have been un derestimated com pared
with real-world scenarios. Nonet heless, this ap proach was valuable
for com paring the charac teristics of each predic tion met hod.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 3. Recapitulation performan ce for herbal com pounds (up per ﬁgure) and herbs (lower ﬁgure) ac ross different databases and com binations. (A) Distribution of
recapitulating performan ce and coverage for known targets in com pounds and herbs by database. (B) Distribution of performan ce in rediscovering known targets by plat form
com bination met hods and the num ber of plat forms used in the com bination.
We found that all net work-based ap proac hes out performed
chan ce level performan ces for both herbal in gredient-disease and
herb-disease pairs (Fig. 5B). The protein overlap met hod yielded
satisfac tory
AUROC
and
AUPR
values.
However,
using
this
ap proach, on ly ap proximately one-third of the herbal medicine-
disease pairs yielded similarity scores greater than zero, leaving
the majority of pairs un prioritized owing to a score of zero. This
suggests that the protein overlap met hod may be limited in scope
for discerning the therapeutic effects of herbal medicines and their
in gredients. We also observed that the net work proximity met hod
produced lower AUROC and AUPR values com pared to the ot her
met hods, suggesting that con sidering on ly closeness wit hin a sim-
ple PPI net work may not be sufﬁcient for discerning therapeutic
effects. In con trast, the multiscale in terac tome met hod out per-
formed the ot her met hods both AUROC and AUPR. This highlights
the im portan ce of con sidering PPIs and their relation ships with
biological fun ctions when determining the therapeutic effects of
herbal medicines.
We analyzed performan ce distribution based on a com bination
of plat forms and predic tion met hods (Fig. 5C). In most com bina-
tions, we conﬁrmed that the performan ce surpassed chan ce level.
Using known targets led to superior predic tive out comes for both
the herbs and herbal in gredients. This suggests that, when sufﬁ-
cient data are available, relying solely on validated in formation is
beneﬁcial. However, the ot her met hods exhibited substan tial per-
forman ce. HERB–multiscale in terac tome com bination yielded the
best performan ce for herbal in gredients, whereas Sym Map–multi-
scale in terac tome com bination was the most effec tive for herbs.
Overall, these ﬁndings un derscore that the predic tive ac curacy of
the therapeutic effects of herbal medicines can vary based on the
com bination of net work met hods em ployed.
808
Case study on determining the therapeutic effects of herbs
We sought to validate whet her the iden tiﬁed op timal datasets
and con ditions could help predic ting the therapeutic effects of
herbs in various diseases. Using the multiscale in terac tome
ap proach on the paper target, which showed the highest perfor-
man ce in predic ting therapeutic effects, we prioritized the rela-
tion ship bet ween herbs and diseases. We discovered that nearly
half (4 out of 10) of the prioritized herb-disease associations had
already been reported (Table 2)). Furthermore, we explored
whet her the un reported associations among the prioritized results
could in dicate the poten tial therapeutic effects of the herbs. We
chose to focus on prostate neop lasm because it is both a top-
predic ted result and a disease of signiﬁcant therapeutic im por-
tan ce, with a rising prevalen ce and global im pact. Given its rele-
van ce, we explored the poten tial treat ments and mec hanisms of
prostate can cer in detail. We conﬁrmed that PR and LE showed
high correlation scores with prostate can cer, along with GF, which
is in cluded in the top 10 ran kings, wit hout any reported eviden ce.
Despite their high ran kings, these com ponents have not yet been
reported in literature, in dicating a unique op portunity to un cover
new therapeutic effects and mec hanisms.
To assess the in vivo an tican cer efﬁcacy of herbal extracts, we
used a PC3 xenograft mouse model (Fig. 6A). Tumor volumes and
body weights were measured daily to evaluate the effects of herbal
extracts on tumor growth and overall health. We found that high
doses of PR, LE, and GF signiﬁcan tly sup pressed tumor growth
com pared to the con trol group (Fig. 6A, up per panel). Tumor vol-
umes were measured daily using a digital caliper, and the data


reduced tumor growth and sup ported body weight in a PC3 xeno-
graft mouse model after oral administration.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 4. Performan ce distribution of herb-target associations based on net work analysis met hods. (A) Performan ce chan ges based on PPI net work analysis of herb targets.
Each plot rep resents the Mat thews correlation coefﬁcient value for herb-target pairs exceeding a given cen trality percen tile threshold for known herb targets. (B)
Performan ce distribution ac cording to path count percen tile. Each plot displays the distribution of the Mat thews correlation coefﬁcient, precision, and recall bet ween herb-
target pairs exceeding a speciﬁed path count percen tile threshold and known herb-target pairs. (C) Performan ce variation based on downweighting of the herb-com pound-
target net work. The left plot depicts the AUROC value bet ween the path count and known herb-target pairs as
an dvary. The right heat map illustrates the average
AUROC values for poten tial com binations of the downweighting parameters. (D) Performan ce variation ac cording to downweighted path count percen tile based on op timal
con ditions.
showed a clear reduc tion in tumor size in mice treated with high
doses of the herbal extracts. Fig. 6A (lower panel) shows rep resen-
tative images of tumors from each treat ment group, demonstrating
visual differen ces in tumor size. Body weight chan ges were moni-
tored daily and expressed as percen tages relative to day 1 (Fig. 6A,
middle panel). High doses of PR, LE, and GF mitigated body weight
loss typically associated with tumor progression. These results sug-
gest that the herbal extracts not on ly in hibited tumor growth but
also sup ported overall health and body weight in treated mice. Sta-
tistical analysis conﬁrmed signiﬁcant differen ces bet ween treat-
ment groups. These ﬁndings highlight the therapeutic poten tial
of PR, LE, and GF in treating prostate can cer, as they signiﬁcan tly
809
To verify the in vit ro an tican cer effects of PR, LE, and GF on pros-
tate can cer cell lines, we performed a series of assays. The MTT
assay revealed a dose- and time-depen dent dec rease in cell viabil-
ity in PC3 and LNCa P cells, most notably at 72 h and 3,000 lg/m L
(Fig. 6B). A colony-forming assay showed that treat ment with
these herbs in hibited clonogenic growth, in dicating their long-
term effects on cell survival (Fig. 7A). Flow cytomet ry with An nexin
V/PI staining demonstrated that PR, LE, and GF signiﬁcan tly
in creased apop tosis rates in PC3 and LNCa P cells com pared to con-
trols (Fig. 7B). Western blot analysis conﬁrmed these ﬁndings,
w HCw CT


showing that the expression of an ti-apop totic proteins Bcl-2 and
Mcl-1 dec reased, while markers of apop tosis, such as cleaved PARP
and the b form of STAT3, in creased after treat ment with PR, LE, and
GF. Notably, the cleaved form of caspase 3, a key executor of apop-
tosis, was up regulated, especially in LNCa P cells treated with these
herbs (Fig. 7C and E). These assays collec tively demonstrated the
multifaceted an tican cer ac tivity of PR, LE, and GF, showcasing their
ability to reduce cell viability, in hibit proliferation, and in duce sig-
niﬁcant apop tosis.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 5. Distribution of predic tion performan ce for herbal com pounds (up per ﬁgure) and herbs (lower ﬁgure) based on databases and predic tion met hods. (A)
Schematic rep resen tation of the tasks for determining therapeutic effects and evaluations of net work-based predic tion met hods. (B) Performan ce curves of net work-based
predic tion met hods for known therapeutic effects. (C) Distribution by plat form and predic tion met hod for known therapeutic effects. Overlap: protein overlap; proximity:
net work proximity; MSI: multiscale in terac tome. HERB (mining) rep resents data in tegrated from ot her databases, while HERB (paper) in cludes experimen tally validated
targets. Both datasets are provided by the HERB database.
Table 2
Prioritized herb-in dication pairs based on known herb targets and their reported eviden ce.
Herb ID
Disease ID
Herb name (latin name)
Disease name
Reported eviden ce (PMID)
herb007244
HBDIS001721
Petiolus trac hycarpi
Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia
.
herb000960
HBDIS005061
Vinegar
Cocaine-Related Disorders
.
herb003658
HBDIS002540
Herba ep hedrae
Pulmonary Fibrosis
21,565,143
herb003354
HBDIS002687
Melia azedarach
Schizop hrenia
.
herb000960
HBDIS002070
Vinegar
Neop lasm Metastasis
.
herb003658
HBDIS000265
Herba ep hedrae
Asthma
36,215,828
herb005069
HBDIS002488
Granati fruc tus
Prostatic Neop lasms
.
herb005017
HBDIS002028
Rhizoma zin giberis recens
Myocarditis
33,628,715
herb000960
HBDIS001615
Vinegar
Kidney Calculi
31,202,812
herb001239
HBDIS000372
Erigeron breviscapus
Bone neop lasms
810
We further explored the effects of PR, LE, and GF on cell cyc le
progression and metastasis. Western blot analysis in dicated that
PR and LE signiﬁcan tly downregulated the expression of Cyc lin
D1 and Cdk6 and in hibited Cdk2 expression, whereas GF had sim-
ilar effects with speciﬁcity for LNCa P cells. Up regulation of Cdk
in hibitors p19, p21, and p27 by these herbs further highlighted
their inﬂuen ce on cell cyc le regulation (Fig. 7D and E). Additionally,
a wound healing assay demonstrated that PR, LE, and GF effec tively
hin dered cell migration in both PC3 and LNCa P cells, with PR


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 6. Effects of predic ted herbs on tumor growth in prostate can cers in vivo and in vit ro. A. Effects of on tumor size in PC-3 xenograft mouse model. Tumor growth
(up per panel), body weight chan ges (middle panel) and the rep resen tation of xenograft tumor size reduc tion (lower panel) in a PC-3 xenograft mouse model. Tumor volumes
and body weights were measured daily. Both low doses (500 mg/kg) and high doses (1500 mg/kg) of PR, LE, and GF sup pressed tumor growth and reduced body weight loss
(n > 8). Statistical analysis was performed using Two-way ANOVA with Dun nett’s multip le com parison test (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01 vs. con trol; #p < 0.05, ##p < 0.01 vs.
xenograft). PR, Puerariae Radix; LE, Lit hospermum Eryt hrorhizon; GF, Granati Fruc tus; Xeno, xenograft con trol; DOX, doxorubicin. B. Cell viability measured using MTT assay in
PC3 and LNCa P cells treated with PR, LE, and GF at the in dicated con cen trations and times (com parison with con trol, * p < 0.05, ** p < 0.01).
811


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Fig. 7. The effects of predic ted herbs on cell proliferation, migration and apop tosis in PC3 and LNCa P cells. A. Colony formation assay: Cells treated with PR, LE, and GF at
3,000 lg/ml for 72 h were stained with An nexin V/PI to categorize the cell population in to viable, apop totic, late apop totic, and nec rotic cells (The rep resen tative bands are the
results of experiments repeated at least four times). B. Flow cytomet ry analysis: Cells treated with PR, LE, and GF at 3,000 lg/ml for 72 h were stained with An nexin V/PI to
categorize the cell population in to viable, apop totic, late apop totic, and nec rotic cells. C. Im munoblot ting analysis of apop tosis-related proteins in cells treated with PR, LE, and
GF at 3,000 lg/ml for 72 h. D. Im munoblot ting analysis of cell cyc le-related proteins in cells treated with PR, LE, and GF at 3,000 lg/ml for 72 h. E. Statistical analysis of protein
of in terest. (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01 vs. con trol). F. Scratch wound healing assay: Cells were treated with PR, LE, and GF at 3,000 lg/ml for 72 h, and real-time imaging of scratch
conﬂuen ce was con duc ted (scale bar = 1,000 lm). The data rep resent the percen tage chan ge in scratch gap (*p < 0.05, **p < 0.01 PR; #p < 0.05, ##p < 0.01 LE; p < 0.01 GF vs.
con trol). PR, Puerariae Radix; LE, Lit hospermum Eryt hrorhizon; GF, Granati Fruc tus.
812


showing a notable reduc tion in migration as early as 12 h in LNCa P
cells and 24 h in PC3 cells (Fig. 7F). Overall, our results in dicate that
the potent an tican cer properties of PR, LE, and GF are mediated by
their effects on cell migration and modulation of cell cyc le-related
proteins.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
Discussion
Our critical evaluation serves as a cornerstone for un derstand-
ing current NP analysis of herbal medicine, focusing on un derlying
mec hanisms and therapeutic effects. Initially, we out lined the net-
work construc tion process, highlighting the diverse DBs used for
com pound iden tiﬁcation, target predic tion, and key analytical tools
to discern herbal mec hanisms and therapeutic roles. Our explora-
tory analysis revealed high con sisten cy in in gredient in formation
ac ross herbal medicine DBs, yet signiﬁcant disparities in target
in formation, em phasizing the need for a thorough evaluation. In
our recapitulation task, the performan ce and coverage pat terns
were signiﬁcan tly inﬂuen ced by the choice of NP-DBs, their com bi-
nation met hods, and analysis tec hniques such as net work cen tral-
ity and weighted PC. Further analysis of the therapeutic effects
highlighted the multiscale in terac tome met hod as particularly
effec tive, especially when com bined with data sources such as
HERB and Sym Map. Our case study on prostate can cer rein forced
these ﬁndings, conﬁrming the poten tial of our ap proach to un cover
novel therapeutic effects in real-world scenarios.
Our analysis focuses on the con sisten cy of NP-DB data, reveal-
ing signiﬁcant in con sisten cies, particularly in in gredient–target
associations (Fig. 2). While herb–in gredient associations were gen-
erally con sistent, with recall rates exceeding 90% ac ross most data-
base
pairs
except
those
in volving
HIT,
in gredient–target
associations showed marked divergen ce bet ween databases. HIT
con tained very few in gredients per herb (an average of fewer than
ﬁve) because it on ly in cludes in gredients with experimen tally val-
idated targets. These discrepan cies likely stem from the in trin sic
charac teristics and data curation met hods of each database. For
exam ple, Sym Map and HERB com pile com prehen sive herb in for-
mation by in corporating data from existing NP-DBs, whereas
BAT MAN-TCM and TCM-Mesh select in gredients based on criteria
such as the availability of Pub Chem CIDs. In con trast, HIT focuses
solely on experimen tally validated targets, resulting in a much
smaller dataset, with an average of fewer than ﬁve targets per herb.
This in con sisten cy poses challen ges for researchers, leading to
varying in terpretations of an herb’s mec hanism of ac tion depend-
ing on the database. Our ﬁndings un derscore the urgent need for
a stan dardized ap proach to data collec tion and in tegration in NP-
DBs to im prove the reliability of net work pharmacology analyses
in volving herbal medicines.
We com pared various met hods for key target iden tiﬁcation in
net work analysis and recognized that the charac teristics of these
met hods, ac cording to the assum ptions on which they rely, affect
their ap plicability (Fig. 4). For in stan ce, ap proac hes like protein–
protein in terac tion (PPI) net work analysis, which perform effec-
tively in social net works [41,42], assume that targets cen trally
located in the PPI subnet work are naturally pivotal. However, this
assum ption may not hold true in the com plex net works of herbal
com pounds and their targets, making the efﬁcacy of iden tifying
key herbal targets elusive. Recent studies have highlighted that
the inﬂuen ce of drugs is more local than global wit hin a net work
[23], suggesting that the closeness bet ween drug targets and
disease-related proteins is crucial in determining therapeutic
effects. Therefore, beyond global cen trality measures, detailed
in vestigation in to the local relation ships bet ween herbal medicines
and diseases wit hin the net work is warran ted. Similarly, the use of
path counts (PCs) can be limited by the uniform con sideration of all
paths, regardless of whet her they originate from com mon in gredi-
ents or those with exten sive target proﬁles. High-degree nodes
often correspond to biologically general or non speciﬁc en tities,
providing limited speciﬁc in formation [22]. Results from the DWPC
algorithm
suggest
that
downweighting
herb-com pound
an dcom pound-target paths in volving high-degree nodes can elucidate
known mec hanisms of herbal medicines more ac curately. Differen-
tiating the weights of PCs based on node charac teristics—such as
downweighting paths associated with high-degree nodes—could
reﬁne the analysis. Adjusting path weighting in this way may lead
to a more ac curate elucidation of key mec hanisms, en han cing our
un derstan ding of how herbal medicines exert their therapeutic
effects. Overall, these in sights highlight the need for nuan ced ana-
lytical tec hniques that con sider the unique properties of herbal
medicine net works to im prove key target iden tiﬁcation.
813
To the best of our knowledge, this study rep resents a pioneering
effort to systematically in vestigate the therapeutic effects of natu-
ral products (Fig. 5). Historically, the iden tiﬁcation of disease treat-
ments through NP has predominan tly focused on the measures of
protein overlap and net work proximity. These are con duc ted based
on the assum ption that a drug that tends to overlap with a disease
and its proteins will treat that disease, or that a target oc cupying
an im portant net work position in the relation ship bet ween
selec ted proteins will play a crucial role. However, the ap plicability
of these foun dational beliefs to un derstand the in tricacies of natu-
ral products remains a topic of debate. Our ﬁndings suggest that
protein overlap is limited and on ly effec tive for a restric ted spec-
trum of therapeutic effects. Although net work proximity en com-
passes protein relation ships wit hin a net work, its efﬁcacy often
mirrors ran dom out comes, suggesting that merely focusing on pro-
tein in terac tions in natural products may generate misleading con-
clusions. In con trast, our research in dicated that evaluating the
effects wit hin a multiscale in terac tome can provide a more reliable
predic tion for iden tifying therapeutic effects.
To validate the poten tial of a novel therapeutic ap proach for
prostate can cer predic ted by our research, we con duc ted in vit ro
experiments to conﬁrm its effects. In our study, we conﬁrmed that
the predic ted herbs PR, LE, and GF in hibited cell viability, prolifer-
ation, and migration by regulating proteins in volved in apop tosis
and cell cyc le regulation (Fig. 6). Moreover, we conﬁrmed the
in vivo effects of the predic ted herbs on tumor growth in hibition
in nude mice xenografted with PC3 cells (data not shown). PR is
a widely used traditional herb for various con ditions such as car-
diovascular
diseases,
diabetes
mellitus,
an ddeafness
[43].
Although studies on the an tican cer effects of PR in vivo and
in vit ro are lac king, the isoﬂavones present in PR in duce apop tosis
and cell cyc le arrest in the G2/M phase in breast can cer cells [44].
LE has an tioxidant properties [45] and sup presses high-fat diet-
in duced obesity [46]. In addition, LE has also been shown to exhibit
an tican cer effects by in ducing apop tosis and G1 phase arrest in
B16F10 melanoma cells. Additionally, it has shown poten tial an ti-
can cer effects in a C57BL/6 mouse model [47]. GF has demon-
strated an ti-inﬂam matory effects both in vivo and in vit ro [48]. It
has therapeutic and preven tive effects against various chronic
human diseases, in cluding an at herogenic lipop rotein proﬁle,
im balan ced an tioxidative status, and disrup ted glucose toleran ce
[49]. In line with this, several in gredients have been studied as
an ti-can cer agents in clinical trials [50]. Dietary sup plements like
saw palmet to and green tea extract have also shown effects on
prostate can cer in ran domized con trolled trials (RCTs) [51]. Nota-
bly, clinical studies have explored herbal com ponents such as
genistein and daidzein found in PR, as well as vitamin C and cate-
chin present in GF, for their roles in regulating prostate can cer pro-
gression [52,53,54]. These previous and current ﬁndings suggest
that the predic ted herbs in this study have poten tial efﬁcacy
against prostate can cer. However, further research, in cluding RCTs,


is needed to conﬁrm the beneﬁcial effects of PR, LE, and GF on pros-
tate can cer and ot her human can cers.
W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
This study may con tain several limitations that may require fur-
ther evaluation and reﬁnement. First, the known therapeutic
effects analyzed are primarily based on in vivo experiments, sug-
gesting the need for additional clinical studies to validate these
ﬁndings in a real-world con text. Second, our analysis relied on a
sin gle database for known target and therapeutic effects, which
may in troduce bias due to the limited scope and curation criteria
of the database. Lastly, while our com putational met hods are
robust, they do not fully ac count for the com plex pharmacokinetics
and in terac tions of multip le com pounds wit hin herbal formula-
tions, which could inﬂuen ce therapeutic out comes. Nevertheless,
this study rep resents the ﬁrst systematic analysis and validation
of the therapeutic effects of herbal medicine through net work
pharmacology, laying a strong foun dation for future research in
this area.
Con clusion
Our study systematically evaluated the met hodologies of NP in
herbal medicine and provided essen tial in sights in to the mec ha-
nisms and therapeutic effects of herbal in gredients. We em phasize
the signiﬁcan ce of met hodological ap proac hes in net work con-
struc tion and analysis, particularly the advan tages of multiscale
in terac tomes over traditional met hods, such as protein overlap
and net work proximity. Our em pirical validation further afﬁrmed
the poten tial of NP to iden tify and substan tiate novel therapeutic
effects, as exem pliﬁed by its suc cessful ap plication in prostate can-
cer treat ment, thereby establishing a precedent for future research
in this promising ﬁeld.
CRedi T aut horship con tribution statement
Won-Yung Lee: Con cep tualization, Met hodology, Writing –
original draft, Supervision. Kwang-Il Park: In vestigation, Visual-
ization, Writing – original draft. Seon-Been Bak: Software, Formal
analysis, Writing – original draft. Seun gho Lee: Formal analysis,
Project administration, Supervision, Writing – review & editing.
Su-Jin Bae: Validation, Resources. Min-Jin Kim: Formal analysis,
Data curation. Sun-Dong Park: Resources, Writing – review & edit-
ing. Choon Ok Kim: Resources, Writing – review & editing. Ji-
Hwan Kim: Fun ding ac quisition, Writing – review & editing.
Young Woo Kim: Con cep tualization, Supervision, Writing –
review & editing, Fun ding ac quisition. Chang-Eop Kim: Con cep tu-
alization, Met hodology, Writing – review & editing.
Fun ding
This research was sup ported by grants from the National
Research Foun dation of Korea (NRF) fun ded by the Korean govern-
ment
(MSIT)
(grant
num bers
RS-2023–00243363,
RS-2023–
00218419, RS-2024–00449029, and RS-2024–00335030), the Min-
istry
of
Education
(NRF–2022R1I1A2066653
and
2022R1I1A3053818), and the Korea Health Tec hnology R&D Pro-
ject through the Korea Health In dustry Develop ment In stitute
(KHIDI), fun ded by the Ministry of Health & Welfare, Republic of
Korea (grant num ber: HF20C0212).
Dec laration of com peting in terest
The aut hors dec lare that they have no known com peting ﬁnan-
cial in terests or personal relation ships that could have ap peared
to inﬂuen ce the work reported in this paper.
814
Ap pen dix A. Sup plemen tary data
Sup plemen tary data to this artic le can be found on line at
https://doi. org/10.1016/j. jare.2024.12.040.
Referen ces
[1] Katashima CK, de Oliveira MT, Braga RR, Gaspar RS, Goemin ne LJ, Moura-Assis
A, et al. Eviden ce for a neuromuscular circuit in volving hypot halamic
in terleukin-6 in the con trol of skeletal muscle metabolism. Sci Adv 2022;8
(30). doi: https://doi. org/10.1126/sciadv. abm7355.
[2] Luo L, Jiang J, Wang C, Fit zgerald M, Hu W, Zhou Y, et al. Analysis on herbal
medicines utilized for treat ment of COVID-19. Ac ta Pharm Sin B 2020;10
(7):1192–204. doi: https://doi. org/10.1016/j. apsb.2020.05.007.
[3] Luo H, Vong CT, Chen H, Gao Y, Lyu P, Qiu L, et al. Naturally oc curring an ti-
can cer com pounds: shining from Chinese herbal medicine. Chin Med 2019;14
(1):48. doi: https://doi. org/10.1186/s13020-019-0268-2.
[4] Peng F, Xie X, Peng C. Chinese herbal medicine-based can cer therapy: novel
an tican cer agents targeting mic ro RNAs to regulate tumor growth and
metastasis.
Am
J
Chin
Med
2019;47(8):1711–35.
doi:
https://doi. org/
10.1142/S0192415X19500838.
[5] Long F, Yang H, Xu Y, Hao H, Li P. A strategy for the iden tiﬁcation of
com binatorial bioac tive com pounds con tributing to the holistic effect of herbal
medicines. Sci Rep 2015;5(1):12361. doi: https://doi. org/10.1038/srep12361.
[6] Zhang GB, Li QY, Chen QL, Su SB. Net work pharmacology: a new ap proach for
Chinese herbal medicine research. Evid Based Com plement Alternat Med
2013;2013:. doi: https://doi. org/10.1155/2013/621423621423.
[7] Li S, Zhang B. Traditional Chinese medicine net work pharmacology: theory,
met hodology and ap plication. Chin J Nat Med 2013;11(2):110–20. doi: https://
doi. org/10.1016/S1875-5364(13)60037-0.
[8] Hop kins AL. Net work pharmacology: the next paradigm in drug discovery. Nat
Chem Biol 2008;4(11):682–90. doi: https://doi. org/10.1038/nchem bio.118.
[9] Lee W-Y, Lee C-Y, Kim Y-S, Kim C-E. The met hodological trends of traditional
herbal medicine em ploying net work pharmacology. Biomolecules 2019;9
(8):362. doi: https://doi. org/10.3390/biom9080362.
[10] Zhang R, Zhu X, Bai H, Ning K. Net work pharmacology databases for traditional
chinese medicine: review and assessment. Front Pharmacol 2019;10:123. doi:
https://doi. org/10.3389/fphar.2019.00123.
[11] Xin W, Zi-Yi W, Zheng J-H, Shao L. TCM net work pharmacology: a new trend
towards com bining com putational, experimen tal and clinical ap proac hes. Chin
J Nat Med 2021;19(1):1–11. doi: https://doi. org/10.1016/S1875-5364(21)
60001-8.
[12] Ru J, Li P, Wang J, Zhou W, Li B, Huang C, et al. TCMSP: a database of systems
pharmacology for drug discovery from herbal medicines. J Chemin form 2014;6
(1):1–6. doi: https://doi. org/10.1186/1758-2946-6-13.
[13] Zhang R-z, Yu S-j, Bai H, Ning K. TCM-Mesh: the database and analytical
system for net work pharmacology analysis for TCM preparations. Sci Rep
2017;7(1):2821. doi: https://doi. org/10.1038/s41598-017-03039-7.
[14] Liu Z, Guo F, Wang Y, Li C, Zhang X, Li H, et al. BAT MAN-TCM: a bioin formatics
analysis tool for molecular mec hanism of traditional Chinese medicine. Sci Rep
2016;6(1):21146. doi: https://doi. org/10.1038/srep21146.
[15] Wu Y, Zhang F, Yang K, Fang S, Bu D, Li H, et al. Sym Map: an in tegrative
database of traditional Chinese medicine en han ced by sym ptom map ping.
Nuc leic Acids Res 2019;47(D1). doi: https://doi. org/10.1093/nar/gky1021.
[16] Fang S, Dong L, Liu L, Guo J, Zhao L, Zhang J, et al. HERB: a high-throughput
experiment-and referen ce-guided database of traditional Chinese medicine.
Nuc leic Acids Res 2021;49(D1). doi: https://doi. org/10.1093/nar/gkaa1063.
[17] Ruiz C, Zit nik M, Leskovec J. Iden tiﬁcation of disease treat ment mec hanisms
through the multiscale in terac tome. Nat Com mun 2021;12(1):1796. doi:
https://doi. org/10.1038/s41467-021-21770-8.
[18] Chan dra RV, Varanasi BS. Pyt hon requests essen tials. Birmin gham, UK: Packt
Publishing; 2015.
[19] Subramanian A, Narayan R, Corsello SM, Peck DD, Natoli TE, Lu X, et al. A next
generation con nec tivity map: L1000 plat form and the ﬁrst 1,000,000 proﬁles.
Cell 2017;171(6). doi: https://doi. org/10.1016/j. cell.2017.10.049. 1437-52. e17.
[20] Yang M, Chen J-L, Xu L-W, Ji G. Navigating traditional Chinese medicine
net work pharmacology and com putational tools. Evid Based Com plement
Alternat Med 2013. doi: https://doi. org/10.1155/2013/731969.
[21] Bonacich P. Some unique properties of eigen vec tor cen trality. Soc Netw
2007;29(4):555–64. doi: https://doi. org/10.1016/j. soc net.2007.04.002.
[22] Him melstein DS, Baran zini SE. Heterogeneous net work edge predic tion: a data
in tegration ap proach to prioritize disease-associated genes. PLo S Com put Biol
2015;11(7). doi: https://doi. org/10.1371/journal. pcbi.1004259.
[23] Guney E, Men che J, Vidal M, Bara bá si A-L. Net work-based in silico drug
efﬁcacy
screening.
Nat
Com mun
2016;7(1):10331.
doi:
https://doi. org/
10.1038/ncomms10331.
[24] Safety Mo Fa D. The Korean pharmacopoeia. Seoul, Korea; 2022.
[25] Xue R, Fang Z, Zhang M, Yi Z, Wen C, Shi T. TCMID: traditional Chinese
medicine in tegrative database for herb molecular mec hanism analysis. Nuc leic
Acids Res 2012;41(D1). doi: https://doi. org/10.1093/nar/gks1100.
[26] Xu X, Zhang W, Huang C, Li Y, Yu H, Wang Y, et al. A novel chemomet ric
met hod for the predic tion of human oral bioavailability. Int J Mol Sci 2012;13
(6):6964–82. doi: https://doi. org/10.3390/ijms13066964.


W.-Y. Lee, K.-I. Park, S.-B. Bak et al.
Journal of Advan ced Research 76 (2025) 799–815
[27] Huang J, Cheung F, Tan HY, Hong M, Wang N, Yang J, et al. Iden tiﬁcation of the
ac tive com pounds and signiﬁcant pat hways of yin chen hao decoc tion based on
net work pharmacology. Mol Med Rep 2017;16(4):4583–92. doi: https://doi.
org/10.3892/mmr.2017.7149.
[28] Xu L, Zhang Y, Zhang P, Dai X, Gao Y, Lv Y, et al. In tegrated metabolomics and
net work pharmacology strategy-driven ac tive traditional Chinese medicine
in gredients discovery for the alleviation of cisplatin nep hrotoxicity. Chem Res
Toxicol
2019;32(12):2411–21.
doi:
https://doi. org/10.1021/acs.
chem restox.9b00180.
[29] Tao W, Xu X, Wang X, Li B, Wang Y, Li Y, et al. Net work pharmacology-based
predic tion of the ac tive in gredients and poten tial targets of Chinese herbal Radix
Curcumae formula for ap plication to cardiovascular disease. J Et hnop harmacol
2013;145(1):1–10. doi: https://doi. org/10.1016/j. jep.2012.09.051.
[30] Ye H, Ye L, Kang H, Zhang D, Tao L, Tang K, et al. HIT: lin king herbal ac tive
in gredients to targets. Nuc leic Acids Res 2010;39(suppl_1). doi: https://doi.
org/10.1093/nar/gkq1165.
[31] Yan D, Zheng G, Wang C, Chen Z, Mao T, Gao J, et al. HIT 2.0: an en han ced
plat form for Herbal In gredients’ Targets. Nuc leic Acids Res 2022;50(D1):
D1238–43. doi: https://doi. org/10.1093/nar/gkab1011.
[32] Wishart DS, Feunang YD, Guo AC, Lo EJ, Marcu A, Grant JR, et al. Drug Bank 5.0:
a major up date to the Drug Bank database for 2018. Nuc leic Acids Res 2018;46
(D1). doi: https://doi. org/10.1093/nar/gkx1037.
[33] Yu H, Chen J, Xu X, Li Y, Zhao H, Fang Y, et al. A systematic predic tion of
multip le
drug-target
in terac tions
from
chemical,
genomic,
andpharmacological data. PLo S One 2012;7(5). doi: https://doi. org/10.1371/
journal. pone.0037608.
[34] Perlman L, Got tlieb A, Atias N, Rup pin E, Sharan R. Com bining drug and gene
similarity measures for drug-target elucidation. J Com put Biol 2011;18
(2):133–45. doi: https://doi. org/10.1089/cmb.2010.0213.
[35] Szklarczyk D, San tos A, Von Mering C, Jen sen LJ, Bork P, Kuhn M. STITCH 5:
augmen ting protein–chemical in terac tion net works with tissue and afﬁnity
data.
Nuc leic
Acids
Res
2016;44(D1).
doi:
https://doi. org/10.1093/nar/
gkv1277.
[36] Bara bá si AL, Gulbahce N, Loscalzo J. Net work medicine: a net work-based
ap proach to human disease. Nat Rev Genet 2011;12(1):56–68. doi: https://doi.
org/10.1038/nrg2918.
[37] Estrada
E,
Rodriguez-Velazquez
JA.
Subgraph
cen trality
in com plex
net works. Phys Rev E 2005;71(5):. doi: https://doi. org/10.1103/Phys Rev E.71.
056103056103.
[38] Zhang
QR,
Zhong
ZF,
Sang
W,
Xiong
W,
Tao
HX,
Zhao
GD,
etal.
Com parative com prehen sion on the an ti-rheumatic Chinese herbal medicine
Siegesbec kiae Herba: Com bined com putational predic tions and experimen tal
in vestigations.
J
Et hnop harmacol
2019;228:200–9.
doi:
https://doi. org/
10.1016/j. jep.2018.09.023.
[39] Tang J, Ait tokallio T. Net work pharmacology strategies toward multi-target
an tican cer therapies: from com putational models to experimen tal design
prin cip les. Curr Pharm Des 2014;20(1):23–36. doi: https://doi. org/10.2174/
13816128113199990470.
[40] Bak SB, Song YR, Bae SJ, Lee WY, Kim YW. In tegrative ap proach to un cover
an tioxidant properties of Bup leuri Radix and its ac tive com pounds: Multiscale
in terac tome-level analysis with experimen tal validation. Free Radic Biol Med
2023;199:141–53. doi: https://doi. org/10.1016/j. freeradbiomed.2023.02.016.
815
[41] Woods J, Galbraith B, Hewitt-Dun das N. Net work cen trality and open
in novation: a social net work analysis of an SME manufac turing cluster. IEEE
Trans
Eng
Manag
2019;69(2):351–64.
doi:
https://doi. org/10.1109/
TEM.2019.2934765.
[42] Lan dherr A, Friedl B, Heidemann J. A critical review of cen trality measures in
social net works. Bus Inf Syst Eng 2010;2:371–85. doi: https://doi. org/10.1007/
s12599-010-0127-3.
[43] Zhang Z, Lam TN, Zuo Z. Radix Puerariae: an overview of its chemistry,
pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, and clinical use. J Clin Pharmacol 2013;53
(8):787–811. doi: https://doi. org/10.1002/jcph.96.
[44] Lin YJ, Hou YC, Lin CH, Hsu YA, Sheu JJ, Lai CH, et al. Puerariae radix isoﬂavones
and their metabolites in hibit growth and in duce apop tosis in breast can cer
cells. Bioc hem Biop hys Res Com mun 2009;378(4):683–8. doi: https://doi. org/
10.1016/j. bbrc.2008.10.178.
[45] Han J,
Weng X, Bi
K. An tioxidants
from a Chinese medicinal herb–
Lit hospermum eryt hrorhizon. Food Chem 2008;106(1):2–10. doi: https://doi.
org/10.1016/j. foodchem.2007.01.031.
[46] Gwon SY, Ahn JY, Chung CH, Moon B, Ha TY. Lit hospermum eryt hrorhizon
sup presses
high-fat
diet-in duced
obesity,
an dacetylshikonin,
amain
com pound
of
Lit hospermum
eryt hrorhizon,
in hibits
adipocyte
differen tiation. J Agric Food Chem 2012;60(36):9089–96. doi: https://doi.
org/10.1021/jf3017404.
[47] Rajasekar S, Park C, Park S, Park YH, Kim ST, Choi YH, et al. In vit ro and in vivo
an tican cer effects of Lit hospermum eryt hrorhizon extract on B16F10 murine
melanoma.
J
Et hnop harmacol
2012;144(2):335–45.
doi:
https://doi. org/
10.1016/j. jep.2012.09.017.
[48] Lee CJ, Chen LG, Liang WL, Wang CC. An ti-inﬂam matory effects of Punica
granatum Lin ne in vit ro and in vivo. Food Chem 2010;118(2):315–22. doi:
https://doi. org/10.1016/j. foodchem.2009.04.123.
[49] Bagri P, Ali M, Aeri V, Bhowmik M, Sultana S. An tidiabetic effect of
Punica
granatum
ﬂowers:
effect
on hyperlipidemia,
pan creatic
cells
lipid
peroxidation
an dan tioxidant
en zymes
inexperimen tal
diabetes.
Food
Chem
Toxicol
2009;47(1):50–4.
doi:
https://doi. org/10.1016/j. fct.
2008.09.058.
[50] Jencˇa A, Mills DK, Ghasemi H, Saberian E, Jencˇa A, Karimi Forood AM, et al.
Herbal therapies for can cer treat ment: a review of phytot herapeutic efﬁcacy.
Biologics 2024:229–55. doi: https://doi. org/10.2147/BTT. S484068.
[51] Posadzki P, Lee MS, Onakpoya I, Lee HW, Ko BS, Ernst E. Dietary sup plements
and prostate can cer: a systematic review of double-blind, placebo-con trolled
ran domised clinical trials. Maturitas 2013;75(2):125–30. doi: https://doi. org/
10.1016/j. maturitas.2013.03.006.
[52] Lazarevic B, Boezelijn G, Diep LM, Kvernrod K, Ogren O, Ram berg H, et al.
Efﬁcacy and safety of short-term genistein in terven tion in patients with
localized prostate can cer prior to radical prostatec tomy: a ran domized,
placebo-con trolled, double-blind Phase 2 clinical trial. Nutr Can cer 2011;63
(6):889–98. doi: https://doi. org/10.1080/01635581.2011.582221.
[53] Chong P, Rashid P. Can we prevent prostate can cer? Aust Fam Physician
2005;34(4). doi: https://doi. org/10.1038/ncpuro0072.
[54] Perlet ti G, Magri V, Vral A, Stamatiou K, Trin chieri A. Green tea catec hins for
chemop reven tion of prostate can cer in patients with histologically-proven
HG-PIN or ASAP. Con cise review and meta-analysis. Arch Ital Urol An drol
2019;91(3). doi: https://doi. org/10.1126/sciadv. abm7355.