1)　Hoàng Bảo Châu, Phó Dức Thực and Hữu Ngọc, “Overview of Vietnamese Traditional 
Medicine,” in id., eds., Vietnamese Traditional Medicine (2nd ed.) (Hanoi: The Giới Publishers, 
1999), pp. 1–28; Lâm Giang, “Thư tịch y dược cổ truyền Việt Nam thực trạng” [The actual state 
of books of Vietnamese traditional medicine and pharmacology], in id., ed., Tìm hiểu thư tịch y 
dược cổ truyền Việt Nam [A study of books of Vietnamese traditional medicine and pharmacology] 
(Hanoi: Nhà xuất bản Khoa học xã hội, 2009), pp. 13–190 (this study has been cited on the basis 
87
PREAMBLE
From the fourteenth century onwards, the Vietnamese, emphasizing the distinctive­
ness of Vietnam, lying as it did to the south of China, called their own medicine 
“Southern medicine” (nam y 南醫 or nam dược 南藥) and Chinese medicine or Viet­
namized Chinese medicine “Northern medicine” (bắc y 北醫 or bắc dược 北藥). After 
French rule began in the nineteenth century, these two traditions of medicine were 
together called “Eastern medicine” (đông y 東醫) in contrast to “Western medicine” 
(tây y 西醫). Further, following independence in 1945, the term “Eastern medicine” 
(đông y học 東醫學) was used; then, after the deterioration of relations between 
China and Vietnam in 1978, the term “ethnic medicine” (dân tộc y học 民族醫學) 
came into use, and since 1986 the term “Vietnamese traditional medicine” (Việt Nam 
truyện thống y học 越南傳統醫學) has been used together with “Eastern medicine.” 
Today, specialists in Eastern medicine are being trained in six-year courses at Tuệ 
Tĩnh College of Traditional Medicine and in departments of Eastern medicine at six 
medical schools, and graduates are engaged in the treatment of patients. In 1961 
an Institute of Eastern Medicine and a Society of Eastern Medicine were also 
established.
　Because of its high temperatures, humidity, and wars, many medical texts and 
other sources have been lost in Vietnam. Partly for this reason, in this article I wish 
to survey the traditions of Vietnamese medicine and its characteristics during the 
Trần 陳 (1225–1413), Lê 黎 (1428–1789), and Nguyễn 阮 (1802–1945) dynasties, 
which were independent of China. The following survey is based on prior research 
by others1) and also on my own previous research.2)
The Traditions and Characteristics of Vietnamese Medicine
　
MAYANAGI Makoto


of an abridged Japanese translation by Ōnishi Kazuhiko 大西和彦); and Nguyễn Thị Dương, “Ngư 
tiều y thuật vấn đáp trong tủ sách đông y thời Nguyễn” [The Ngư tiều y thuật vấn đáp on the 
bookcase of Eastern medicine during the Nguyễn dynasty], Tạp chí Hán Nôm 漢喃雜誌 103 
(2010), pp. 56–62.
2)　Mayanagi Makoto 真柳誠, “Betonamu kokka toshokan no koiseki shoshi” ベトナム國家圖書
館の古醫籍書誌 [The bibliography of the old medical books in the National Library of Vietnam 
(sic)], Jinbun Gakka Ronshū 人文学科論集 (Ibaraki Univ.) 45 (2006), pp. 1–16; id., “Nghiên cứu so 
sánh định lượng thư tịch y học cổ truyền các nước khu vực đồng văn” [Quantitative comparative 
studies on traditional medical treatises in countries using the same language (i.e., classical 
Chinese)], Tạp chí Hán Nôm 97 (2009), pp. 10–29; id., “Betonamu kokka toshokan no koiseki 
shoshi: hoi (ichi)” ベトナム國家圖書館の古醫籍書誌　補遺 (一) [The bibliography of the old medical 
books in the National Library of Vietnam: Addendum (1)], Jinbun Komyunikēshon Gakka Ronshū 
人文コミュニケーション学科論集 (Ibaraki Univ.) 10 (2011), pp. 21–39; id., “Betonamu kokka 
toshokan no koiseki shoshi: hoi (ni)” ベトナム國家圖書館の古醫籍書誌　補遺 (二) [The bibliography 
of the old medical books in the National Library of Vietnam: Addendum (2)], Jinbun 
Komyunikēshon Gakka Ronshū 11 (2011), pp. 51–73; and id., “Betonamu Kan-Nan Kenkyūjo no 
koiseki shoshi” ベトナム漢喃研究所の古醫籍書誌 [The bibliography of the old medical books in the 
Institute of Han-Nom Studies, Vietnam (sic)], (1)–(7), Jinbun Komyunikēshon Gakka Ronshū 12 
(2012), pp. 19–42; 13 (2012), pp. 53–76; 14 (2013), pp. 39–65; 15 (2013), pp. 71–97; 16 (2014), 
pp. 17–46; 17 (2014), pp. 51–76; 18 (2015), pp. 17–41.
3)　It is possible that some of the old books held in Hue were lost during the massacre at Hue 
during the Tet Offensive in 1968. There is said to be a depository of medical and pharmacological 
treatises in Hue in the home of an elderly woman who is the granddaughter of Trương Dăng Quế 
張登桂, a minister during the Nguyễn dynasty, and some texts of the Imperial Academy of Medi­
cine may have survived.
88
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
I. THE HISTORY OF VIETNAM AND MEDICAL SOURCES
From the second century B.C., when northern Vietnam was ruled by China’s Han 漢 
dynasty, Chinese rule of northern Vietnam continued until the tenth century except 
for a brief period during the sixth century. Consequently, the Chinese script was 
widely used, and a civil service examination system modeled on that of China 
operated from the eleventh century, after northern Vietnam gained independence 
from China, until 1918. The chữ nôm 字喃 characters used for writing Vietnamese 
were used from the thirteenth century down to the mid-twentieth century, and Viet­
namese was usually written in mixed Hán-Nôm 漢喃, combining Chinese characters 
with chữ nôm characters. The majority of early books of the Lý Trần 李陳 period 
(11th to 14th centuries) were lost during Ming 明 rule and the war for independence 
in the early ﬁfteenth century, and extant books are limited to manuscripts and printed 
books postdating the ﬁfteenth century. The state collection of books that was held in 
Thăng Long 昇龍 (present-day Hanoi), the capital of the Lê dynasty, was later moved 
to Phú Xuân 富春 (present-day Hue), the capital of the Nguyễn dynasty (1802–1945). 
Partly because the inhabitants of Hue are unfavorably disposed towards the govern­
ment in Hanoi,3) the current state of these materials has still not been adequately 


89
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
investigated, although during the period of French rule many of the books held in Hue 
were copied by the École française d’Extrême-Orient, and almost all of the old 
books it collected are today held in the Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies (Viện Nghiên 
cứu Hán Nôm) in Hanoi.
　Only medical and pharmacological works dating from the fourteenth century and 
later are known today. Nonetheless, from the period of independent dynasties that 
began in the eleventh century, court physicians were using expensive Chinese medi­
cines to manage the health of the king and ofﬁcials, while village doctors were treat­
ing ordinary people with cheap Vietnamese medicines produced in Vietnam. These 
local doctors would probably have kept records of their experiences, but because of 
their need to make a living such manuscript writings would have been regarded as 
“secret” and would not have circulated widely, and it is only natural that they would 
have been gradually lost.
　I once investigated about one hundred old books (all originals) at the National 
Library of Vietnam (Thư viện Quốc gia Việt Nam) and found 59 Vietnamese books 
and 16 Chinese books related to medicine and pharmacology. I likewise examined 
about ﬁve hundred books (both originals and copies) at the Institute of Hán-Nôm 
Studies and found 323 Vietnamese books and 22 Chinese books related to medicine 
and pharmacology. Among these books, there were 19 Vietnamese books on medi­
cine and pharmacology and 2 Vietnamese books on plants and natural science held 
by both institutions, and if we exclude these, there were 361 Vietnamese medical and 
pharmacological books, the majority of which dated from the eighteenth to twentieth 
centuries. They included formularies (64), books on smallpox and measles (43), 
books on obstetrics, gynecology, and pediatrics (37), general works on various areas 
of medicine (29), and books on diagnosis (26), and these trends in numbers are 
similar to the situation in China, Japan, and Korea. There was, however, a high 
proportion of works on obstetrics, gynecology, and pediatrics, and the presence of 11 
works related to Taoism and Buddhism was a characteristic peculiar to Vietnam.
　Records of the printing of books in Vietnam go back to the fourteenth century, but 
up until the mid-twentieth century the vast majority of books were compiled by the 
government and published by the state, and not many books were published privately 
or commercially. Some medical and pharmacological books were published non-
commercially by Buddhist and Taoist temples, but few of these have survived. 
Commercially published medical and pharmacological books were also few in 
number, and most that have survived were printed in the nineteenth century and later. 
Consequently, the majority of medical and pharmacological texts have been trans­
mitted as manuscripts that were formerly kept secret. Furthermore, information about 
old books held throughout Vietnam is not exhaustive at the present stage. Owing 


4)　Chu Văn An 朱文安 (real name: Chu An 朱安; courtesy name: Linh Triệt 靈澤) was born on 
the outskirts of Hanoi on the 25th of the eighth month of 1292 and died on the 28th of the eleventh 
month of 1370 at the age of seventy-eight. Instead of entering government service after passing 
the civil service examinations, he opened a school in his home district and taught many students. 
During the reign of Minh Tông 明宗 (1314–29), he became a teacher for a time at the Imperial 
Academy (quốc tử giám 國子監), where he taught the crown prince. He is regarded as one of the 
luminaries of Vietnamese Confucianism and composed an introduction to Chu Hsi’s 朱熹 Ssu-shu 
chi-chu 四書集注 (Collected Commentaries on the Four Books) under the title Tứ thư thuyết ước 四
書説約 (Concise Exposition of the Four Books) in 10 volumes. This is the oldest extant Vietnamese 
work related to the Confucian classics and is also the oldest evidence of the transmission of Neo-
Confucianism to Vietnam.
5)　Tuệ Tĩnh is a monastic name that was used by several monks from the tenth to seventeenth 
centuries, and according to some, one of these was Hồng Nghĩa 洪義 of the early ﬁfteenth century, 
who was well versed in medicine.
90
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
to these various circumstances, it remains difﬁcult to trace the history of Viet- 
namese medicine and pharmacology in terms of historical facts back before the Trần 
dynasty.
II.　MEDICAL AND PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATISES OF THE TRẦN DYNASTY 
(1225–1400) AND TUỆ TĨNH
Vietnam’s oldest extant medical treatise is considered to be the Y học yếu giải 醫學要
解 (Exposition of the Essentials of Medicine) compiled by Chu Văn An (1292–
1370).4) I have not seen this work, but it analyzes the etiology and pathology of 
various diseases on the basis of the Chinese medical classic Nei-ching 內經 and 
describes diagnoses and treatments, and the compiler is said to have devised two 
prescriptions for treating infectious fevers and chills.
　The physician representative of the Trần dynasty was Tuệ Tĩnh 慧靖 (1330–1385–
?), who was born Nguyễn Bá Tĩnh 阮伯靖. He passed the civil service examinations 
in 1374 at the age of forty-ﬁve, but instead of entering government service, he took 
the tonsure and began practicing Buddhism at Buddhist temples, and it seems that he 
practiced medicine under his monastic name, ﬁrst Huệ Tĩnh 惠靖 and later Tuệ Tĩnh 
慧靖 (frequently miswritten 慧靜). He was sent to China in his capacity as a monk in 
1385, but he was detained there so that he could practice medicine, and he is said to 
have died in China. This means that his medical writings must predate 1385.5)
　In 1717 the Lê dynasty compiled and published Tuệ Tĩnh’s writings under the title 
Hồng Nghĩa giác tư y thư 洪義覺斯醫書 (Medical Books of Hồng Nghĩa giác tư) in 
two volumes. The ﬁrst volume consists of the Nam dược quốc ngữ phú 南藥國語賦 
(Prose-poem in the Vietnamese Language on Southern Drugs) and Trực giải chỉ nam 
dược tính phú 直解指南藥性賦 (Prose-poem of Instructions Directly Explaining the 


Fig. 1. Hồng Nghĩa giác tư y thư, vol. 2 
(National Library of Vietnam [NLV], 
R.1556)
Fig. 2. Nam dược thần hiệu, opening vol. 
(NLV, R.1740)
91
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
Properties of Southern Drugs), while the second volume (ﬁg. 1) consists of the Thập 
tam phương gia giảm 十三方加減 (Thirteen Formulas with Additive and Subtractive 
Adjustments), Thương hàn cách pháp trị lệ 傷寒格法治例 (Examples of Methods for 
Treating Cold Damage), and Chứng trị phương pháp 症治方法 (Methods for Treating 
Maladies). It is clear, however, that the Thập tam phương gia giảm is an abridged 
Hán-Nôm translation of the Chinese Yüan 元-period Chia-chien shih-san fa 加減十三
方 (ﬁrst pub. 1413), while the Thương hàn cách pháp trị lệ is likewise an abridged 
Hán-Nôm translation of the Sha-ch‘e ch‘ui-fa 殺車槌法 (Method for Crushing Cold 
Damage) among the Ming-period Shang-han liu-shu 傷寒六書 (Six Treatises on Cold 
Damage) (ﬁrst pub. 1522), and therefore they are undoubtedly additions attributed to 
Tuệ Tĩnh that date from the sixteenth to eighteenth centuries. The edition illustrated 
in ﬁg. 1 (of which only vol. 2 survives) is not from the ﬁrst edition in 1717, but 
probably from a nineteenth-century reprint.
　The Nam dược quốc ngữ phú records the Chinese names, Vietnamese names, and 
effects of Southern drugs in common use in Vietnam in the form of twenty-four Hán-
Nôm prose-poems. Although it has modiﬁcations and additions made in later times, 


92
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
it includes some old forms of chữ nôm characters, and the original work may 
therefore be considered to have been written by Tuệ Tĩnh. The Trực giải chỉ nam 
dược tính phú lists 218 drugs classiﬁed by treatment in the form of a Chinese prose-
poem, and it begins by emphasizing the fact that Southern medicines produced in 
Vietnam are appropriate for illnesses prevalent in Vietnam: “If one wishes to beneﬁt 
the people, one should ﬁrst seek out sacred medicines. Heavenly writings will most 
certainly appear in the country in the south, and locally produced [medicines] differ 
from those of the land to the north” (欲惠生民，先尋聖藥。天書越定南邦，土産有殊北
國). At the end of this work mention is also made of “the extensive beneﬁt of the 
South” (南天廣惠), and since the character tuệ 惠 is used both at the start and at the 
end, this work may be considered to have been written by Tuệ Tĩnh (惠靖 = 慧靖).
　In addition, Tuệ Tĩnh also seems to have written the original version of the Nam 
dược thần hiệu thập khoa ứng trị 南藥神效十科應治 (Miraculous Efﬁcacy of Southern 
Drugs Applied to the Treatment of Ten Branches of Medicine). A manuscript copied 
by the École française d’Extrême-Orient and held by the Institute of Hán-Nôm 
Studies (A.1270) includes the preface to a 1761 reprint, and it constitutes an 11- 
volume compendium of medicine consisting of an opening volume and ten volumes 
ranging in subject matter from cerebrovascular disorders (vol. 1) to surgery (vol. 10). 
The opening volume, “Dược phẩm nam danh khí vị chính trị ca quát” 藥品南名氣味
正治歌括 (Songs Summarizing the Southern Names, Properties, and Effects of 
Drugs), was reprinted three times in the ﬁrst half of the twentieth century under the 
title Nam dược thần hiệu 南藥神效 (Miraculous Efﬁcacy of Southern Drugs) (ﬁg. 2 is 
from an edition published in Hanoi in 1920). This opening volume records in the 
form of songs of several lines the Chinese names, Vietnamese names (in chữ nôm 
characters), effects, and methods of preparation for 563 medicines classiﬁed into 
herbs, grains, vegetables, fruits, and so on. Since the method of classiﬁcation coin­
cides by and large with that of the Chinese Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu 本草綱目 (Guidelines 
and Details of Materia Medica) (ﬁrst pub. 1596), there can be no doubt that it was 
substantially revised and supplemented in later times. However, vols. 1–10 are all 
written in Hán-Nôm, include many simple treatments using Southern drugs, and 
show little Chinese inﬂuence, and therefore the received text probably derives from 
an original work by Tuệ Tĩnh.
　At any rate, Tuệ Tĩnh’s view that Southern medicines should be used to treat the 
Vietnamese and his use of the song format were to have an enormous inﬂuence on 
subsequent Vietnamese medicine and medical and pharmacological treatises.


6)　Phan Phu Tiên 潘孚先 (d.u.) was born on the outskirts of Hanoi. He passed the civil service 
examinations in 1396 during the Trần dynasty and then again in 1429 during the Lê dynasty, 
eventually rising to the position of erudite (bác sĩ 博士) in the Imperial Academy. He also com­
piled the 6-volume Việt âm thi tập 越音詩集, Vietnam’s ﬁrst literary anthology, which contains 624 
poetic works from the Trần to Lê dynasties.
7)　Nguyễn Trực 阮直 was born to the west of present-day Hanoi and passed the civil service 
examinations in 1442. In the years 1443–53 he served as a government historiographer.
93
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
III.　MEDICAL AND PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATISES OF THE LÊ DYNASTY 
(1428–1789)
1. Phan Phu Tiên’s Bản Thảo Thực Vật Toản Yếu
At the start of this period, the original version of the Bản thảo thực vật toản yếu 本草
食物纂要 (Collected Essentials of Comestible Materia Medica) was composed. The 
extant text of this work was handcopied by the École française d’Extrême-Orient 
(Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.1219), and it classiﬁes 392 readily obtainable 
Southern drugs and everyday foodstuffs into herbs, vegetables, minerals, etc., adds 
the Vietnamese equivalents in chữ nôm characters to their Chinese names, and also 
records their properties, efﬁcacy, detoxiﬁcation methods, and so on. It also includes 
a postscript by Phan Phu Tiên, according to which it was compiled in 1429. Phan 
Phu Tiên gained the degree of presented scholar (tiến sĩ 進士) in both the Trần and 
Lê dynasties and made contributions to history and literature,6) and his period of 
activity and ofﬁcial posts do not conﬂict with the postscript’s contents.
　This work also has an undated, anonymous preface, according to which it was 
excerpted from various pharmacopoeias and Li Shih-chen’s 李時珍 Pen-ts‘ao kang- 
mu. Since the main text includes many quotations from Li Shih-chen’s work, there 
can be no doubt that use was made of the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu. But because the 
sixteenth-century date of the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu conﬂicts with Phan Phu Tiên’s 
dates, it may be assumed that later additions and modiﬁcations were made to the 
preface and main text and that the extant text differs considerably from the original 
work. However, since some old chữ nôm characters found in the ﬁfteenth-century 
Hồng Dức quốc âm thi tập 洪徳國音詩集 (Anthology of Poems in Vietnamese Pronun- 
ciation by Hồng Dức) are used, it may be supposed that there existed a pharma­
copoeia of comestibles by Phan Phu Tiên that served as a basis for the extant version.
2. Nguyễn Trực’s Bảo Anh Lương Phương
The presented scholar Nguyễn Trực (1417–73)7) compiled the 4-volume Bảo anh 
lương phương 保嬰良方 (Effective Prescriptions for Protecting Infants), the oldest 
extant Vietnamese work on pediatrics. Only a handcopy of the volume on spring, 


94
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
made by the École française d’Extrême-Orient (Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, 
A.1462), is extant, and the whereabouts of the volumes on summer, autumn, and 
winter are unknown. In Nguyễn Trực’s undated preface it is stated that, “Although it 
is outside my area of expertise, I studied Chinese medical and pharmacological 
treatises and collected and excerpted their essence.” According to the title page, this 
work was presented “on an auspicious day in the seventh month, in autumn, of the 
second year of the Diên Ninh 延寧 era (1455),” and so it is evident that it was 
completed in 1455. Its standardized format suggests that the base text of the hand­
copy may have been a printed edition. It is written in Chinese and contains no chữ 
nôm characters.
　The extant portion of this work describes diagnoses and treatments for infants’ 
skin diseases, convulsions, smallpox, measles, etc., in the form of songs, prose-
poems, expositions, discourses, etc. It is possible to identify parts that preserve the 
original forms of Chinese songs and prose-poems and parts that have been revised 
and edited by the compiler. The compilation of medical and pharmacological books 
by men who had passed the civil service examinations, as in this case, could be 
described as a characteristic of Vietnam.
3. Hoàng Đôn Hòa’s Hoạt Nhân Toát Yếu and Trịnh Đôn Phác’s Hoạt Nhân Toát 
Yếu Tăng Bổ
Hoàng Đôn Hòa 黄敦和 is not mentioned in the genealogy of seventeen generations 
of the Hoàng clan, and so his dates are not known. But since it is recorded in the 
Thần phả 神譜 (Sacred Genealogy) that in the struggles with the Mạc 莫 clan in 1592 
he treated fever, vomiting, and diarrhea among soldiers of the Lê dynasty’s army and 
also treated its war elephants, it is evident that he was a physician of the sixteenth 
century. The Hoạt nhân toát yếu 活人撮要 (Compendium for Saving People) attrib­
uted to him does in fact include treatments for fever, vomiting, and diarrhea, and 
also methods for treating water buffaloes, cattle, and horses, but because there are 
virtually no elephants in northern Vietnam, there is no mention of the treatment of 
elephants. It includes many treatments based on readily available medicinal sub­
stances, and it may be described as a compendium of the essential points of medical 
treatment. The treatment of domestic animals is not found in any earlier works, and 
so Hoàng Đôn Hòa could be called the father of Vietnamese veterinarians and army 
doctors.
　Trịnh Đôn Phác 鄭敦樸 (1692–1762), who produced an enlarged edition of the 
Hoạt nhân toát yếu, passed the physicians’ examination in 1741 and was responsible 
for looking after the empress and others at the court’s Academy of Medicine. His 
3-volume Hoạt nhân toát yếu tăng bổ 活人撮要増補 (Supplement to the Compendium 


95
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
for Saving People) survives in the form of a handcopy by the École française 
d’Extrême-Orient (Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2535), and its systematic format 
suggests that it was copied from a printed edition. Vol. 1 deals with gynecology, vol. 
2 with pediatrics, and vol. 3 with surgery and domestic animals, and it is by and 
large written in Chinese. There are quite a number of Vietnamese medical treatises 
dealing with the two subjects of gynecology and pediatrics, with surgery sometimes 
being added. The works used by Trịnh Đôn Phác to supplement the Hoạt nhân toát 
yếu include, in addition to the Nam dược thần hiệu, the Chinese medical and phar­
macological treatises Ching-yüeh ch‘üan-shu 景岳全書 (Complete Works of Ching-
yüeh; ﬁrst pub. 1710), Shou-shih pao-yüan 壽世保元 (Longevity and the Preservation 
of Health; 1615), I-hsüeh ju-men 醫學入門 (Introduction to Medicine; 1575), Chi-yin 
kang-mu 濟陰綱目 (Guidelines and Details for Beneﬁting Women; ﬁrst pub. 1620), 
and Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu (ﬁrst pub. 1596), and it is evident that these works were held 
by the court’s Academy of Medicine. These Chinese works are, moreover, frequently 
quoted in later Vietnamese medical works and exerted a strong inﬂuence on 
Vietnamese medicine. In content, the Hoạt nhân toát yếu tăng bổ mainly describes 
formulas arranged by symptoms, the diseases for which they are indicated, their 
constituent drugs, their doses, and how they are to be taken, and there is little theoreti- 
cal discussion. It also includes many lists of oral instructions, which are indicative of 
Trịnh Đôn Phác’s clinical experience.
　The only other medical works dating from up until the seventeenth century that I 
have been able to identify are the 5-volume Bảo sinh diên thọ toản yếu 保生延壽纂要 
(Collected Essentials for Preserving Life and Prolonging Life Span) by Đào Công 
Chính 陶公正, with his own preface dated 1676 (Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, 
A.3179), and the 1-volume Châm cứu thủ huyệt đồ 鍼灸取穴圖 (Diagrams for Select­
ing Points in Acu-moxibustion) with a colophon dated 1695 by Lí Công Tuấn 李公俊 
(Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHv.2015).
4. Ngô Văn Tĩnh’s Vạn Phương Tập Nghiệm
Ngô Văn Tĩnh 呉文靖, another presented scholar, compiled the 8-volume Vạn 
phương tập nghiệm 萬方集驗 (Collected Effects of a Myriad Formulas). The extant 
handcopy made by the École française d’Extrême-Orient (Institute of Hán-Nôm 
Studies, A.1287/1–8) has a preface dating from when it was reprinted in 1762, ac- 
cording to which it was “compiled by Ngô Văn Tĩnh, a presented scholar of the Lê 
dynasty, proofread by Nguyễn Nho 阮儒, a presented scholar of the Lê dynasty, and 
copied by Nguyễn Địch 阮迪, an entry-level licentiate (tú tài 秀才) of the Academy 
of Medicine.” It is also stated that because it was difﬁcult to obtain a conspectus of 
formulas, this collection was compiled by searching widely and includes formulas 


96
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
handed down in families throughout the country.
　The Vạn phương tập nghiệm is written entirely in Chinese, and it constitutes a 
formulary arranged by illness. Vols. 1–4 deal with internal treatment, starting with 
various illnesses such as malaria, diarrhea, food poisoning, cerebrovascular disor­
ders, summer colds, cold-induced disorders, inﬂuenza, and colds caught when it is 
chilly. The placing of malaria, diarrhea, and food poisoning before cold-induced 
disorders could be described as a characteristic common to Vietnamese medical 
treatises. Vol. 5 deals with surgery, vol. 6 with gynecology and pediatrics, vol. 7 with 
illnesses of the head, and vol. 8 with thoracico-abdominal illnesses and illnesses of 
the lower half of the body, and a distinctive feature of the ﬁnal two volumes can be 
seen in the fact that they are both divided into three parts.
　For each illness, formulas are listed by symptoms, but there is no theoretical 
discussion of the illnesses, and sources are given at either the start or the end of each 
section. Many of the formulas have been indirectly quoted from Chinese works such 
as the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu, Wai-t‘ai mi-yao-fang 外臺祕要方 (Secret and Essential 
Formulas from the Imperial Library), and Cheng-lei pen-ts‘ao 證類本草 (Veriﬁed and 
Classiﬁed Pharmacopoeia), but there are also quotations from Chinese works post­
dating the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu. It is worth noting that the Vạn phương tập nghiệm also 
quotes from Vietnamese medical and pharmacological treatises the current where­
abouts of which are unknown. This format of bringing together only formulas may 
have been inﬂuenced by the Chinese P‘u-chi-fang 普濟方 (Prescriptions for Univer­
sal Relief; 1390). This work is the only extant Vietnamese formulary compiled by 
imperial order, and in this sense too it is quite valuable.
5. Lê Hữu Trác’s [Hải Thượng Lãn Ông] Y Tông Tâm Lĩnh
Lê Hữu Trác 黎有倬 (1720–91), whose given name was Hữu Chẩn 有診, also went by 
the pseudonym of Hải Thượng Lãn Ông 海上懶翁 (Old Idler of Hải Thượng). Both 
his grandfather and father had been presented scholars. He was born in his mother’s 
hometown in Hà Tĩnh 河靜 province, grew up in his father’s hometown in Hải 
Dương 海陽 province, and later returned to his mother’s home district, where he took 
the name Hải Thượng Lãn Ông and practiced medicine. He is therefore generally 
known as Hải Thượng Lãn Ông or Lãn Ông.
　As a boy, Lê Hữu Trác went with his father to the capital Thăng Long, where he 
studied and became renowned for his exceptional talent and extensive knowledge. At 
the age of twenty he returned to his birthplace to perform the funeral service for his 
father and discharge his ﬁlial duties towards his mother, and he never resumed his 
studies. At the time, the country was in a state of upheaval because of numerous 
conﬂicts, and it was also suffering from droughts and famines. Unable to decide on 


97
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
how to support himself, Lê Hữu Trác studied yin-yang 陰陽 theory under an eighty-
year-old teacher named Võ 武. He later joined the army, but realizing that war is of 
no beneﬁt to the general populace, he returned to his mother’s hometown after his 
older brother’s death.
　But because he had many worries and had become debilitated, Lê Hữu Trác 
received treatment from Trần Độc 陳讀, who had given up studying for the civil 
service examinations and had retired to become a doctor, and he recovered after 
about one year. The medical books he studied at this time included the Chinese 
Feng-shih chin-nang mi-lu 馮氏錦囊祕錄 (Mr. Feng’s Secret Records from a Brocade 
Pouch), a medical encyclopedia in 8 parts and 50 fascicles by Feng Chao-chang 馮 
兆張 and ﬁrst published in 1702, and because Lê Hữu Trác displayed a profound 
understanding of yin-yang theory as it applied to medicine, Trần Độc transmitted all 
of his medical knowledge to him. In 1756 Lê Hữu Trác went to the capital in search 
of a teacher of medicine, but unable to ﬁnd one, he returned home and continued 
with his reading. Then, after having practiced medicine for a further ten-odd years, 
he began writing some years prior to 1770 a work based on his own experiences and 
studies and ultimately composed the [Hải Thượng Lãn Ông] Y tông tâm lĩnh [海上懶
翁]醫宗心領 (Essential Guidelines for Medicine [by the Old Idler of Hải Thượng]) in 
28 parts and 66 volumes. The above biographical information is based on his own 
preface to this work (ﬁg. 3), its explanatory remarks and ﬁnal volume, and other 
sources.
　The Y tông tâm lĩnh was proofread by Đường Mi Võ 唐郿武 on the basis of Lê 
Hữu Trác’s own handwritten manuscript, etc., and was ﬁrst printed in 1879–85 at 
Đồng Nhân 同人 temple in Bắc Ninh 北寧. Judging from the prefaces to each 
volume, it was written in the years between 1770 and 1786. The woodblocks were 
stored at Đồng Nhân temple until the end of the Vietnam War in 1975, and some 
surviving woodblocks that ended up in the south are currently held by Bắc Ninh 
Provincial Museum (ﬁg. 4). The general table of contents gives the title of each 
volume, and their contents are as follows:
Opening vol., “Y nghiệp thần chương” 醫業神章: describes inter alia the author’s 
experiences with medical treatment throughout his life.
Vol. 1, “Nội kinh yếu chỉ” 内經要旨: explains the essential points of the Nei-ching.
Vol. 2, “Y gia quan miện” 醫家冠冕: summarizes the main points of medicine.
Vols. 3–5, “Y hải cầu nguyên” 醫學求源: present sayings of earlier physicians with 
explanations.
Vol. 6, “Huyễn tẫn phát vi” 玄牝發微: discusses congenital water and ﬁre (yin and 
yang) in the kidney’s energy (shen-ch‘i 腎氣) and pills with six ingredients (liu-


Fig. 3. Y tông tâm lĩnh, author’s preface (NLV, R.1077)
Fig. 4. Woodblock held by Bắc Ninh Provincial Museum
98
MAYANAGI MAKOTO


99
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
wei-wan 六味丸) and eight ingredients (pa-wei-wan 八味丸).
Vol. 7, “Khôn hóa thái chân” 坤化採眞: discusses acquired energy and blood (ch‘i-
hsüeh 氣血) in the spleen and stomach and formulas for tonifying the spleen.
Vol. 8, “Đạo lưu dư vận” 導流餘韻: sets forth the author’s medical theories.
Vol. 9, “Vận khí bí điển” 運氣祕典: discusses the theory of circulatory phases and 
seasonal inﬂuences (yün-ch‘i 運氣).
Vols. 10–11, “Dược phẩm vựng yếu” 藥品彙要: describe the effects of 150 impor­
tant drugs.
Vols. 12–13, “Lĩnh Nam bản thảo” 嶺南本草: describe the effects of Vietnamese 
drugs on the basis of the Nam dược thần hiệu, etc.
Vol. 14, “Ngoại cảm thông trị” 外感通治: discusses illnesses due to external ma- 
leﬁc inﬂuences and their treatment.
Vols. 15–24, “Bách bệnh cơ yếu” 百病機要 (only vols. 17–18 published): discuss 
various illnesses and their treatment.
Vol. 25, “Y trung quan kiện” 醫中關鍵: discusses the secrets to treating various 
illnesses.
Vols. 26–27, “Phụ đạo xán nhiên” 婦道燦然: discuss gynecological disorders, 
prepartum and postpartum disorders, and their treatment.
Vol. 28, “Toạ thảo lương mô” 坐草良模: discusses obstetrics.
Vols. 29–32, “Ấu ấu tu tri” 幼幼須知: discuss pediatrics.
Vols. 34–43, “Mộng trung giác đậu” 夢中覺痘: discuss smallpox.
Vol. 44, “Ma chẩn chuẩn thằng” 麻疹準繩: discusses measles.
Vol. 45, “Tâm đắc thần phương” 心得神方: explains formulas included in the 
Feng-shih chin-nang mi-lu.
Vol. 46, “Hiệu phỏng tân phương” 傚倣新方: lists formulas devised by the author.
Vols. 47–49, “Bách gia trân tàng” 百家珍藏: list formulas devised by renowned 
Vietnamese physicians, arranged by illness.
Vols. 50–57, “Hành giản trân nhu” 行簡珍需: give drugs suitable for various 
illnesses.
Vols. 58–60, “Y phương hải hội” 醫方海會 (only vol. 58 published): bring together 
formulas arranged by illness.
Vol. 61, “Y dương án” 醫陽案: gives examples of successful treatments.
Vol. 62, “Y âm án” 醫陰案: gives examples of unsuccessful treatments.
Vol. 63, “Truyền tâm bí chỉ” 傳心祕旨 (“Châu ngọc cách ngôn” 珠玉格言): presents 
sayings about the quintessence of medical treatment in general.
Vol. 64, “Vấn sách” 問策: unpublished.
Closing vol., “Thượng Kinh kí sự” 上京記事: includes an account of the author’s 
visit to Thăng Long, poems exchanged with famous people, etc.


8)　Nguyễn Gia Phan 阮嘉璠 was born in Từ Liêm 慈廉 district (present-day Hanoi) in 1749. 
He passed the civil service examinations at the age of twenty-six and was appointed to the post of 
censor, overseeing ofﬁcials in Sơn Tây 山西 province.
100
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
　The Y tông tâm lĩnh thus consists of 64 volumes together with opening and closing 
volumes, making 66 volumes in total. But the extant version is missing several 
volumes, and judging from the prefaces added at the time of publication it would 
seem that a total of 55 volumes in 27 parts were actually published. It is, of course, 
the most voluminous medical treatise compiled by a single person in Vietnam, and 
there are few similar examples in China, Japan, or Korea. When one also takes into 
account the fact that it was published about a hundred years after the author’s death, 
it is questionable whether it was actually composed by Lãn Ông alone. But the 
overall contents, including the author’s prefaces to each volume, display a high level 
of internal consistency, and signs of the inclusion of the writings of other people can 
be found only in vols. 12–13. The most frequently quoted work is the Feng-shih 
chin-nang mi-lu, followed by the I-hsüeh ju-men, Wan-ping hui-ch‘un 萬病回春 
(Recovery from a Myriad Diseases), Shou-shih pao-yüan, and Ching-yüeh ch‘üan-
shu, all of which are medical encyclopedias dating from the Ming to early Ch‘ing 
period, and it is to be surmised that it was partly because of the inﬂuence of these 
works that the Y tông tâm lĩnh was composed.
　The achievements of this work may be considered to have been threefold. First, it 
presented a system of medicine in which Chinese medicine had been Vietnamized 
and clariﬁed its characteristics. Secondly, it dealt comprehensively with the effects 
of and formulas for Vietnamese drugs from the perspective of Tuệ Tĩnh’s view that 
Southern medicines should be used for treating the Vietnamese, and it also provided 
newly devised treatments and formulas. Thirdly, it described not only successful but 
also unsuccessful examples of treatment for the beneﬁt of future students of 
medicine. This work presented both theories and methods of treatment, especially 
methods of treatment and formulas using Southern drugs, and a systematic form of 
Vietnamese medicine was brought to completion. Even prior to its publication, it 
was quoted in many Vietnamese medical and pharmacological works, and manu­
scripts of parts of it or excerpts from it also circulated. It was thus an extremely inﬂu- 
ential work, and its author Lãn Ông must indeed be regarded as one of the leading 
physicians in the history of Vietnam.
6. Medical Treatises by Nguyễn Gia Phan
Nguyễn Gia Phan (1749–1829),8) another presented scholar, wrote several medical 
treatises, including the Thai sản điều kinh phương pháp 胎産調經方法 (Methods for 


9)　Extant copies of this work also bear the titles Thai tiền điều kinh phương pháp 胎前調經方
法, Thai tiền điều dưỡng phương pháp 胎前調養方法, Thai sản điều lí phương pháp 胎産調理方法, 
and Thai sản điều dưỡng phương pháp 胎産調養方法. But these titles are all misnomers deriving 
from chapter titles, and the correct title is Thai sản điều kinh phương pháp.
101
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
Conceiving by Regulating Menstruation), Lý âm phương pháp thông lục 理陰方法 
通錄 (Comprehensive Record of Methods for Managing Women’s Health), Hộ nhi 
phương pháp thông lục 護兒方法通錄 (Comprehensive Record of Methods for Pro­
tecting Infants), and Liệu dịch phương pháp toàn tập 療疫方法全集 (Complete Col­
lection of Methods for Treating Epidemics).
　The Trịnh 鄭 family, which wielded power in the ﬁnal years of the Lê dynasty, had 
few successors, and learning that the presented scholar Nguyễn Gia Phan came from 
a family of physicians that had continued for three generations, they had him com­
pile a book about prepartum matters (1777), which was then used at the imperial 
court. Nguyễn Gia Phan returned home in 1786 and, adding a section on postpartum 
matters which had been missing in the work he had presented to the Trịnh family, he 
wrote the Thai sản điều kinh phương pháp, a book on obstetrics written in Chinese 
(Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHv.2069).9) It includes an explanation of the 
relationship between the fetus during the ten months of pregnancy and the meridians 
or channels (ching-mai 經脈), methods for predicting the sex of the fetus, medicines 
to be used at childbirth, illustrated explanations of the fetus during the ten months of 
pregnancy, treatment for menstrual irregularities, methods for becoming pregnant, 
secret instructions for conceiving through sexual intercourse, and secret instructions 
for changing a female fetus into a male fetus within the ﬁrst three months of preg­
nancy. Each chapter contains a theoretical discussion and formulas, as well as ac- 
counts of the author’s experiences in treating the conditions dealt with. The works 
quoted include, in addition to the Chinese gynecological texts Chi-yin kang-mu and 
Fu-jen liang-fang 婦人良方 (Effective Formulas for Women), the encyclopedic Cheng- 
chih chun-sheng 證治準繩 (Standards for Diagnosis and Treatment), Ching-yüeh 
ch‘üan-shu, Feng-shih chin-nang mi-lu, Shou-shih pao-yüan, and Wan-ping hui-
ch‘un, suggesting that these works were widely read at the time.
　Nguyễn Gia Phan then took the sections on pediatrics in the Thai sản điều kinh 
phương pháp and in 1813 compiled the Hộ nhi phương pháp thông lục in 4 volumes 
(Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.1989/1–2, etc.), again in Chinese. He quotes theo­
retical discussions and treatments, arranged by symptoms, from Chinese works on 
pediatrics and medical encyclopedias, and it is worth noting that this work includes 
“Western methods of treatment.”
　In 1814, Nguyễn Gia Phan compiled the 4-volume Lý âm phương pháp thông lục 
(2 vols. extant; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2853/1–2) on gynecology, also in 


102
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
Chinese. Since it includes a preface from 1788, it could be regarded as an enlarged 
version of the Thai sản điều kinh phương pháp, and again it contains many quota­
tions from Chinese medical works. According to the author’s preface from 1814, he 
also wrote the Y gia phương pháp tổng lục 醫家方法總錄 (Complete Record of 
Physicians’ Methods), but it is not known whether it has survived.
　In 1814 Nguyễn Gia Phan also wrote the 2-volume Liệu dịch phương pháp toàn 
tập on the treatment of epidemics, again in Chinese. According to the 1816 colophon 
in the manuscript of this work (Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.1306), it is based on 
the author’s experiences of treating epidemics during two major outbreaks in 1789 
and 1814. The authors of works quoted include Chang Ching-yüeh 張景岳, Feng 
Chao-chang, Chao Hsien-k‘o 趙獻可, and Wu Mien-hsüeh 呉勉學 of the Ming, and it 
is evident that their writings were widely consulted at the time.
IV.　MEDICAL AND PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATISES OF THE NGUYỄN PERIOD 
(1802–1945)
1. The System of Medical Treatment and Traditional Medical Circles
In the capital Phú Xuân (present-day Hue) there was an Imperial Academy of 
Medicine (thái y viện 太醫院) attached to the court, and it was responsible for 
providing medical care for the imperial family and government ofﬁcials. The training 
of court physicians at the Imperial Academy of Medicine began in 1856, but because 
the lectures provided only simple introductions to internal medicine and surgery, the 
majority of ofﬁcial physicians were selected from among doctors practicing among 
the general populace. Ofﬁcial physicians responsible for looking after government 
ofﬁcials and troops were also attached to local medical ofﬁces (lương y ti 良醫司). 
But there was no public health care for ordinary people, nor were there any training 
and research facilities, and private doctors learnt from teachings passed down in 
their families or else studied at the private schools of renowned physicians. In the 
period from 1820 to 1883, the government provided medical care and medicines for 
the general populace, and during epidemics ofﬁcials from the central government 
and court physicians were sent to the provinces.
　In the 1880s France abolished the civil service examination system in Sài Gòn 
(present-day Ho Chi Minh) in the south, and from around 1910 a romanized form of 
Vietnamese orthography devised by the French (quốc ngữ 國語) began to spread. 
Thereafter, the use of mixed-script texts employing Chinese and chữ nôm characters 
fell into decline, and as a result of the spread of education and hospitals (ﬁg. 5) based 
on Western medicine by the French, traditional medical treatment became the pre­
serve of the private sector. However, the civil service examination system survived 


Fig. 5. Vietnam’s first Western hospital (Sài Gòn, 1876)
103
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
until 1918 in Hue in central Vietnam and in Hanoi in the north, and Hán-Nôm 
writing was used into the twentieth century, as a result of which traditional medicine 
has not been relegated to the private sector to the same extent as in the south. At 
the same time, the number of people engaged in practicing traditional medicine 
increased nationwide, and its spread and popularization also advanced. It is partly for 
this reason that the majority of extant works on traditional medicine and pharma­
cology by Vietnamese are manuscripts or printed books dating from the Nguyễn 
period.
2. Datable Works
There are no voluminous works such as the Y tông tâm lĩnh among extant medical 
and pharmacological works from the Nguyễn period. Furthermore, the majority of 
works thought to have been handwritten since the nineteenth century are notebooks 
and the like that record teachings and so on transmitted by certain families, and only 
a small number mention the author or date of composition. But there are also some 
that have prefaces and so on which inform us of when they were written or pub­
lished. In the following, I shall therefore give a brief overview of works that I have 
been able to date. For further details, reference should be made to two on-line 


10)　http://square.umin.ac.jp/mayanagi/paper01/hannom.html (MAYANAGI Makoto, The 
Bibliography of the Old Medical Books in the Institute of Han-Nom Studies); http://square.umin.
ac.jp/mayanagi/paper01/nlv.html (MAYANAGI Makoto, The Bibliography of the Old Medical 
Books in the National Library of Vietnam).
104
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
sources.10)
Nguyễn Hành 阮衡, Lạc sinh tâm đắc 樂生心得 (Rules for Happy Living), 1 vol. 
(author’s preface dated 1802; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHb.199): medical 
treatise written in Chinese; also includes songs on the meridians written in Hán-
Nôm in alternating lines of six and eight syllables.
Lê Trác Như 黎卓如, Cứu pháp tinh vi trích yếu tiện lãm 灸法精微摘要便覽 (Con­
cise Compendium of the Essence of Moxibustion), 2 vols. (author’s preface 
dated 1805; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHv.2946): treatise on moxibustion, 
written in Chinese.
Ngô Thủ 呉手, Hoạt nhân bị yếu 活人備要 (Essentials for Saving People), 1 vol. 
extant (author’s preface dated 1809; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2798): 
originally a 4-volume medical encyclopedia written in Chinese; the general dis­
cussion of diagnosis, etc., has survived.
Lê Văn Huệ 黎文惠 (?), Tổng toản y tập 總纂醫集 (Compendium of Medicine), 
vols. 2–3 extant (1854?; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.1242): medical ency­
clopedia written in Chinese; the extant manuscript appears to be based on a 
printed edition.
Bùi Thúc Trinh 裴叔貞, Y học thuyết nghi 醫學説疑 (Exposition of Doubts about 
Medicine), vols. 1, 3–5 & 7 extant (author’s preface dated 1854; National Li- 
brary of Vietnam, R.1963): medical treatise written in Chinese in question-and-
answer format (ﬁg. 6).
Bùi Thúc Trinh, Vệ sinh yếu chỉ 衞生要旨 (Main Points for Protecting Life), 8 vols. 
(colophon dated 1866, author’s preface dated 1890; National Library of Viet­
nam, R.1201–04, etc.): systematic medical encyclopedia written in Chinese; 
judging from the extant manuscripts, a printed edition may have been published 
in 1890.
Trần Đức Hinh 陳徳馨, Đậu khoa 痘科 (Smallpox), 4 vols. (author’s preface dated 
1869; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2949/1–2): systematic and comprehen­
sive collection of treatments for smallpox, written in Chinese (including songs 
and prose-poems).
Nguyễn Hi Viên 阮希袁, Sử đồng tê thọ đậu hậu toàn thư 使童躋壽痘後全書 (En- 
cyclopedia for Recovery from Infantile Smallpox), 1 vol. (author’s preface 


Fig. 6. Y học thuyết nghi, author’s preface (NLV, R.1963)
105
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
dated 1880; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2273): extant version was copied 
from a printed edition with a preface dated 1880.
Nguyễn Văn Thi 阮文詩, Tự dục bí quyết 嗣育祕訣 (Secret Instructions for Ob- 
taining an Heir), 5 vols. (author’s preface dated 1884; Institute of Hán-Nôm 
Studies, VHt.3/1–3): detailed treatise on obstetrics, with examples of how 
childless prominent people had children.
Lê Đức Vọng 黎徳望 (?), Nhãn khoa yếu lục 眼科要錄 (Essentials of Ophthal­
mology), 1 vol. (colophon dated 1884; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2160): 
treatise on ophthalmology, written in Chinese.
Nguyễn Địch 阮迪, Văn khê y thư yếu lục 雲溪醫書要錄 (Essentials of Vân Khê’s 
Medical Treatise), 2 vols. extant (preface dated 1885; Institute of Hán-Nôm 
Studies, A.2133/1–2): collection of medical theories and sections on obstetrics 
and gynecology taken from the Y lý yếu lục 醫理要錄 (Essentials of Medical 
Theory) by the court physician Vân Khê 雲溪.


106
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
Author unknown, Bảo thai thần hiệu toàn thư giải ậm 保胎神效全書解音 (Ency­
clopedia in Vietnamese on Divine Efﬁcacy in Protecting the Fetus), 1 vol. (pub. 
1885; National Library of Vietnam, R.383, etc.): correct title is Bảo thai chủng 
tử quốc ậm toản yếu 保胎種子國音纂要 (Essentials in Vietnamese Pronunciation 
for Protecting Conception and the Fetus); a treatise on obstetrics and pediatrics 
written in Hán-Nôm.
Author unknown, Kì phương diệu tuyển 奇方妙選 (Wondrous Selection of Novel 
Formulas), 4 vols. (colophon dated 1896; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHv. 
2950): family formulary arranged by illness.
Author unknown, Vệ sinh bảo giám 衞生寶鑑 (Precious Mirror on Hygiene), 1 vol. 
(pub. 1898; Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, AB.428): written in Hán-Nôm, it dis­
cusses hygiene in everyday life; unrelated to a Chinese work of the same title.
Hoàng Chí Y 黄志伊, Tự luân đường dược tài bị khảo 敘倫堂藥材備考 (Tự Luân 
Đường’s Notes on Materia Medica), 9 vols. (colophon dated 1899; Institute of 
Hán-Nôm Studies, A.290/1–2): pharmacopoeia which classiﬁes 520 drugs by 
their effects and brieﬂy describes them.
Nguyễn Văn Thịnh 阮文盛, Công tư phổ tế linh dược 公私普濟靈藥 (Miraculous 
Drugs for Universal Relief, Public and Private) (pub. 1910; Institute of Hán-
Nôm Studies, AC.235): collection of formulas for illnesses in seven branches of 
medicine, including men’s health and pediatrics, said to have been sent down to 
earth by order of the Jade Emperor of Taoism.
Chí Thiện Đàn 志善壇, Hoạt thế lương pháp 活世良法 (Effective Methods for 
Saving the World), 3 vols. (pub. 1931; National Library of Vietnam, R.1788, 
etc.): collection of formulas said to have been imparted by a deity who had 
descended upon a medium (ﬁg. 7).
3. The Trung Việt Dược Tính Hợp Biên by Phan Văn Thái et al.
In addition to the above works, a notable pharmacopoeia is the 16-volume Trung việt 
dược tính hợp biên 中越藥性合編 (Combined Compilation of the Properties of Chi­
nese and Vietnamese Drugs) (Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2702/1–16). Accord­
ing to the preface, “Because until now there had been no monograph on drugs pro­
duced in Vietnam, and it had been difﬁcult to ascertain their Vietnamese names and 
utilize them, the government ordered the court physician Phan Văn Thái and others 
to compile one, and it was completed in 1916.”
　This work lists a total of 1,655 drugs produced in China and Vietnam, classifying 
them in the manner of the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu into water, ﬁre, and earth. Written in 
succinct Chinese, for each drug it gives the name, its provenance (whether it is 
produced in China or Vietnam), alternative Chinese name(s) and Vietnamese name 


Fig. 7. Hoạt thế lương pháp (NLV, R.1788)
107
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
(the latter in chữ nôm characters), appearance, properties, processing methods, and 
effects, together with textual sources. The most frequently cited source is the Pen-
ts‘ao kang-mu, followed by Hải Thượng Lãn Ông, the Ch‘ing-period Pen-ts‘ao 
ts‘ung-hsin 本草從新 (New Pharmacopoeia), the local gazetteer Đại Nam nhất thống 
chí 大南一統志 (pub. 1910) compiled during the Nguyễn period, the Ming-period 
I-hsüeh ju-men, and the Ch‘ing-period Pen-ts‘ao pei-yao 本草備要 (Essentials of 
Materia Medica). Vietnamese historical works are also quoted.
　In the explanatory remarks added to the section on ginseng (Panax ginseng) in 
vol. 15, mention is made of ginseng produced in other countries, and Western (i.e., 
American) ginseng (Panax quinquefolius) from North America is mistakenly said to 
come from France. But it is correctly noted that Oriental (i.e., Japanese) ginseng 
(Panax ginseng cultivar) is produced in Japan and that “ﬂower-ﬂag ginseng” (hua-
ch‘i-shen 花旗參), another name for American ginseng, comes from the Americas. It 
is also interesting to note that in the section on tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) in vol. 
16 it is stated that it ﬁrst entered Vietnam from Yün-nan 雲南 in China in 1660. This 


11)　http://lib.nomfoundation.org/ (Digital collections of the Vietnamese Nôm Preservation 
Foundation).
108
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
work, which also pays attention to natural history, is the only Vietnamese pharma­
copoeia compiled by imperial order, and judging from its size, it was probably never 
printed. The sole extant copy held by the Institute of Hán-Nôm Studies is a handcopy 
made by the École française d’Extrême-Orient, and because it was probably based 
on the original preserved in Hue, it is valuable also for the history of Vietnamese 
scholarship.
4. The Ngư Tiều Vấn Đáp Nho Y Diễn Ca and Medicine in Southern Vietnam
Among the Vietnamese medical and pharmacological works considered above, only 
a small number, such as the Hồng Nghĩa giác tư y thư, have been translated and 
published in modern Vietnamese, and in most cases only the titles and/or authors 
have been mentioned in other studies. It is also unlikely that there exist any photo­
graphic reproductions of the originals, but currently works held mainly by the Na- 
tional Library of Vietnam are being made digitally accessible.11) Furthermore, these 
were all works from northern and central Vietnam, especially Hanoi, the capital from 
the Trần period, and Hue, the capital during the Nguyễn period. Up until the ﬁrst half 
of the Nguyễn period, southern Vietnam was far removed from the centers of politics 
and culture, and few old books from the south have survived.
　Following the Treaty of Saigon in 1862, on the basis of which the Nguyễn dynasty 
ceded southern Vietnam to France, French-style medical treatment became the ofﬁ­
cial form of treatment in southern Vietnam, and traditional medical treatment became 
the preserve of local physicians. In resistance to these moves, there was composed 
between about 1870 and 1880 the Ngư tiều vấn đáp nho y diễn ca 漁樵問答儒醫演歌 
(Verses of a Dialogue between a Fisherman and a Woodcutter about Confucian 
Medicine) (ﬁg. 8; pub. 1911), and it has continued to be reprinted under the title Ngư 
tiều vấn đáp y thuật 漁樵問答醫術 (Dialogue between a Fisherman and a Woodcutter 
on the Art of Medicine), which includes a parallel rendering in romanized Vietnam­
ese. This work was composed by the blind poet and Confucian physician Nguyễn 
Đình Chiểu 阮廷炤 (pseudonym: Hối Trai 晦齋; 1822–88) in mixed Hán-Nôm that 
makes use of many chữ nôm characters, and it presents the quintessence of Chinese 
medical and pharmacological theories in about 3,600 verses (diễn ca 演歌) in alter­
nating lines of six and eight syllables.
　Because this work was written in a style of Vietnamese that was easy for people to 
understand and popularized systematic knowledge of traditional medicine for the 


Fig. 8. Ngư Tiều vấn đáp nho y diễn ca (Southern 
Institute of Social Sciences Library, Ho Chi 
Minh)
109
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
ﬁrst time, it is considered to represent a pinnacle in the Vietnamization of Chinese 
medicine. It was also the longest work in the history of Vietnamese medicine to be 
written in the distinctively Vietnamese literary style known as diễn ca. It could be 
said that the reason that similar works did not appear at the time in central and 
northern Vietnam was that it was in the south that traditional medical treatment was 
under the greatest threat from French colonial medicine.
V.　THE DEVELOPMENT AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE 
AND PHARMACOLOGY
In the above we have examined extant medical and pharmacological works from 
the Trần period down to the Nguyễn period, and through these works it is possible 
to gain a glimpse of some of the developments and characteristics distinctive of 
Vietnam.
　The ﬁrst point to be noticed is the development of a form of medicine suited to 
Vietnam’s climatic conditions, the structure of illnesses to which its people were 


110
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
susceptible, and people’s physical constitutions. The fourteenth-century Y học yếu 
giải, the oldest extant Vietnamese medical work, includes two newly devised formu­
las for treating infectious fevers and chills. In dealing with acute diseases, greater 
emphasis is placed on malaria, diarrhea, and food poisoning than on cerebrovascular 
disorders and cold-induced disorders, and this is a characteristic common to Viet­
namese medical works. In vol. 14 (“Ngoại cảm thông trị”) of the Y tông tâm lĩnh, 
cold-induced disorders are discussed together with Vietnam’s climatic conditions 
and the physical constitution of its people, and it is deemed inappropriate to use the 
warming diaphoretics ephedra (ma-huang 麻黄 [Ephedrae herba]) and cinnamon 
twigs (kuei-chih 桂枝 [Cinnamomum obtusifolium (ramus)]) to treat cold-induced 
disorders because of Vietnam’s high temperatures. This work also includes many 
new formulas for supplementing bodily ﬂuids lost through perspiration because of 
Vietnam’s heat and humidity.
　Related to this is the application of Southern drugs in formulas, advocated by Tuệ 
Tĩnh, and the inﬂuence of this can be widely seen in many medical works. That is to 
say, the second characteristic is the expansion of the ﬁeld of Vietnamese medicine 
and pharmacology. The development and application of Southern drugs extended 
to a recognition of the medicinal efﬁcacy of distinctively Vietnamese foodstuffs, 
and there were born original pharmacopoeias of Vietnamese drugs and foodstuffs, 
culminating in the Trung việt dược tính hợp biên, compiled by imperial order. In 
clinical developments, not only did there develop treatments for malaria, warm-
temperature diseases, and miasma, which could all be described as endemic diseases, 
but there were composed medical treatises that placed an equal importance on the 
treatment of domestic animals. Further, owing to frequent warfare, military medicine 
was born, while in measures taken in the imperial court to produce heirs there were 
advances in the ﬁelds of aphrodisiacs, sexual hygiene, gynecology, pediatrics, and 
smallpox to assist in conception and childcare. These formulas based on experience 
were included in the Vạn phương tập nghiệm, a comprehensive formulary compiled 
by imperial order.
　Thirdly, mention may be made of the spread of expositions of medicine in song 
form, starting with Tuệ Tĩnh’s Nam dược quốc ngữ phú and Trực giải chỉ nam dược 
tính phú. Medical and pharmacological works in song form ﬁrst appeared in China 
during the Yüan dynasty and circulated somewhat during the Ming, and their in- 
ﬂuence also extended to some extent to Korea and Japan. But the adoption of this 
format in the greatest number of medical and pharmacological works is a major 
characteristic of Vietnam, and it could be said to be a reﬂection of the fact that 
the essentials of medicine and pharmacology were transmitted by recitation from 
memory and oral transmission. This format was brought to completion in Nguyễn 


111
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF VIETNAMESE MEDICINE
Đình Chiểu’s Ngư Tiều vấn đáp nho y diễn ca in the form of diễn ca written in 
alternating lines of six and eight syllables. It is to be surmised that commercial 
publishing, which also has the function of publicizing and disseminating medical 
and pharmacological knowledge, did not emerge in Vietnam until the late nineteenth 
century. Background factors in this widespread adoption of the song form in Viet­
namese medical and pharmacological works may have been this social economy and 
an oral culture.
　The fourth characteristic is the fact that many of the contemporary medical and 
pharmacological works that continued to be copied and have survived down to the 
present day were compiled by men who had passed the civil service examinations or 
by men belonging to or associated with such families. Of course, the existence of the 
civil service examination system lies behind this, but in China and Korea, where 
civil service examinations were also held, medical and pharmacological works com­
piled by men who had passed these examinations were not circulated or transmitted 
to the same extent as they were in Vietnam. This suggests a relationship between 
Confucianism and medicine peculiar to Vietnam. Consequently, the Chinese medical 
and pharmacological works quoted in their writings were all voluminous and ex- 
pensive works such as the 52-fascicle Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu (1596), 59-fascicle Feng-
shih chin-nang mi-lu (1702), 64-fascicle Ching-yüeh ch‘üan-shu (1710), and 44- 
fascicle Cheng-chih chun-sheng (1760), and these were not works that local doctors 
could usually utilize. Even smaller works such as the 8-fascicle I-hsüeh ju-men 
(1575), 8-fascicle Wan-ping hui-ch‘un (1587), and 10-fascicle Shou-shih pao-yüan 
(1615) were being used in Vietnam not all that long after they had been completed or 
had been ﬁrst published in China, and this too would have been difﬁcult for local 
practitioners to do. It was probably partly because of such factors that medical works 
by men who had passed the civil service examinations continued to be transmitted 
and quoted.
　Fifthly, mention must be made of the appearance of the [Hải thượng lãn ông] Y 
tông tâm lĩnh in 28 books and 66 volumes. Not only can all of the characteristics of 
Vietnamese medicine and pharmacology noted above be found in this work, but they 
have been systematically and logically organized, and it is no exaggeration to say 
that a system endowed with the distinctive features of Vietnamese medicine was 
given concrete expression in this work. This great achievement is comparable to that 
of Manase Dōsan 曲直瀬道三 (1507–94) in Japan and Hŏ Chun 許浚 (1539–1615) in 
Korea, and for this reason Hải Thượng Lãn Ông (Lê Hữu Trác) is regarded as the 
greatest physician in the history of Vietnam. But because of its voluminousness and 
the fact that it is written in Chinese, this work is not used at all in present-day 
Vietnam.


Fig. 9. Temple of Medicine (Hanoi), where Lãn Ông and others are enshrined.12)
12)
This Temple of Medicine (Y Miếu 醫廟) was established in 1774 by Trịnh Đình Ngoạn 鄭
廷玩, head of the Imperial Academy of Medicine, for the purpose of venerating renowned 
Vietnamese physicians such as Tuệ Tĩnh and Hải Thượng Lãn Ông. It was renovated and extended 
in 1834, but was then abandoned during the period of French rule. In 2000 it was rebuilt and 
restored by the municipal authorities of Hanoi, and since then a memorial service has been held 
annually on Traditional Medicine Day (15th day of the ﬁrst month of the lunar calendar) by people 
involved in medicine. It is interesting to note that the names inscribed on the pillars―Shou-shih 
壽世 and Ching-yüeh 景岳 on the right and Hui-ch‘un 回春 and Tan-hsi 丹溪 on the left―are the 
names of Chinese medical works and physicians that had an inﬂuence on Vietnamese medicine.
112
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
　Further, because of the introduction by the government in Hanoi of contemporary 
Chinese medicine in modern Vietnamese translation since 1955, medicine in present-
day Vietnam, with the exception of research into Vietnam’s own medicines, is far 
removed from the old medical and pharmacological works that record Vietnam’s 
own experiential knowledge. It is to be hoped that in the future the diversity of tra­
ditional Vietnamese medicine and pharmacology will be given greater prominence.
