ViHerbQA: A Robust QA Model for Vietnamese Traditional Herbal
Medicine
Quyen Truong1,2, Long Nguyen1,2*, Dien Dinh1,2
1Faculty of Information Technology, University of Science, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
2Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
quyen.uit@gmail.com, {nhblong,ddien}@fit.hcmus.edu.vn
Abstract
This research introduces ViHerbQA 1, a Viet-
namese Traditional Herbal Medicine (VTHM)
question-answering model. However, the Viet-
namese Traditional Herbal Medicine QA
dataset is currently unavailable, so we have
built a dataset of 208,203 question-answer pairs
generated by Large Language Models (LLMs).
To ensure quality, we evaluate these pairs us-
ing various evaluation metrics. The ViHerbQA
model consists of two stages: pre-training and
fine-tuning. We pre-train the ViT5 model on the
dataset in the pre-training phase for the Open-
Book QA task. Then, in the fine-tuning phase,
this pre-trained model is used for the Close-
Book QA task. The goal of this approach is
to enable the model to have a comprehensive
understanding of VTHM. We have conducted
extensive evaluations comparing it with cur-
rent Vietnamese QA systems and state-of-the-
art LLMs and found that it outperforms them
in terms of performance indicators, such as
BERTScore alone achieved more than 80%. In
comparison, other models underperformed on
the ViHerbQA dataset, demonstrating its poten-
tial usefulness in Vietnamese herbal medicine
research. We also fine-tuned LLama3.1-8B on
our dataset and found that it outperformed the
other LLMs evaluated in this study.
1
Introduction
Vietnamese Traditional Herbal Medicine (VTHM)
is a long-standing tradition with a rich history of
medical knowledge. Even though modern medicine
has taken over most parts of the world, traditional
medicine remains applicable, which shows how
valuable it is in terms of research findings and
practical applications in medicine. Nevertheless,
the lack or nonexistence of specialized artificial
intelligence tools like question-answering systems
*Corresponding author.
1Code
availability:
https://github.com/queenley/
ViHerbQA
limits access to useful herbal information necessary
for both research and application.
Large language models (LLMs) and natural lan-
guage processing (NLP) have advanced greatly in
recent times. However, these technologies need to
be customized to fit traditional medicine, particu-
larly for less common languages. There are many
question-answering (QA) systems for English, but
they are still rare in Vietnamese, especially in the
traditional medicine field. This highlights the sig-
nificant potential for improving NLP applications
in this crucial field.
Some breakthroughs have been realized in
question-answering systems construction, includ-
ing in open domains and specific domains like
medicine. Models such as DrQA (Chen et al.,
2017), UnitedQA (Cheng et al., 2021) and UniK-
QA (Oguz et al., 2022), among others, are cate-
gorized under open-domain QA because they pro-
vide answers to general questions about different
topics while BioMedGPT (Luo et al., 2023) and
MEDITRON (Chen et al., 2023) fall under medi-
cal domain since they are designed specifically to
address issues related to health care, using English
language. MedChatZH (Tan et al., 2023) is unique
in its own way because it represents traditional Chi-
nese medicine through an LLM fine-tuning method
based on a dataset derived around ancient Chinese
treatments, whereas the Vietnamese ViHealthQA
dataset is used in creating SPBERTQA (Nguyen
et al., 2022) in Vietnamese medicine field.
Most of these advancements focus on English
sources, with few addressing other languages, par-
ticularly Vietnamese. This means that there is a
need to develop specialized QA systems for Viet-
namese, and in this work, we will develop ViHer-
bQA, a question-answering model for the VTHM
field.
ViHerbQA is a robust question-answering model
designed to bridge modern technology and tradi-
tional knowledge in Vietnamese herbal medicine.


Our research tackles two main problems, which
include the lack of a VTHM QA dataset and the
need for an operational model that can understand
VTHM knowledge. The aim of ViHerbQA is to
overcome these challenges by employing the latest
techniques that are applicable within VTHM.
The development process of ViHerbQA involves
several steps outlined below:
1. Dataset Creation: Since no existing VTHM
QA dataset has been discovered, we created a new
one consisting of 208,203 question-answer pairs
using advanced language models such as GPT-3.5,
GPT-4o-mini, Gemini Flash, and Gemini Pro be-
cause they have high-performance levels and they
also support multiple languages.
2. Dataset Evaluation: We used evaluation met-
rics like Semantic Similarity, BLEU (Papineni
et al., 2002), and Rouge (Lin, 2004) to validate
the dataset’s applicability.
3. Model Development: There are two stages
when developing ViHerbQA: a) Pre-training: We
use ViT5 (Phan et al., 2022a) to train the Open-
Book QA task using our own dataset with the ex-
pectation that the model can learn comprehensive
VTHM knowledge through contexts in the training
process. b) Fine-tuning: This stage entails adapting
the pre-trained model towards the Close-Book QA
task to enable it to give accurate responses.
4. Performance Evaluation: To evaluate ViHer-
bQA’s performance in answering VTHM-related
questions, we compared it against other Vietnamese
QA models and state-of-the-art LLMs using BLEU
(Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE (Lin, 2004), and
BERT-SCORE (Zhang et al., 2019).
This research creates a more robust VTHM
model than previous QA systems. The idea be-
hind this approach is to utilize contemporary natu-
ral language processing techniques with an under-
researched language to build a stronger base for fu-
ture question-answering for unique domains. With
ViHerbQA, we hope to broaden awareness and un-
derstanding surrounding VTHMs among scholars,
practitioners, and interested individuals.
2
Related works
Over the past few years, we have seen tremen-
dous advancements in question-answering systems,
largely due to progress in natural language process-
ing (NLP) and Large Language Models (LLMs).
Different domains have received various contribu-
tions, but traditional medicine needs to be explored.
Advancements in large language models (LLMs)
and effective pre-training techniques have led to
the rise in using QA models. BERT (Devlin et al.,
2018), XLNet (Yang et al., 2019), and T5 (Raffel
et al., 2020) are examples of such models that were
tested on benchmark datasets. These models are
trained on general text collections and then fine-
tuned on specific QA datasets to boost their perfor-
mance in different QA tasks. For our work, we use
ViT5 (Phan et al., 2022b), which is a Vietnamese-
adapted version of T5.
Though NLP has achieved significant milestones
in English, Vietnamese remains under-studied. Re-
searchers face challenges such as insufficient an-
notated resources and complex linguistic features
exhibited by this language. Despite this, there have
been efforts to develop Vietnamese pre-trained lan-
guage models, including PhoBERT (Nguyen and
Tuan Nguyen, 2020), BartPho (Tran et al., 2021),
ViT5 (Phan et al., 2022b), PhoGPT (Nguyen et al.,
2023), or multilingual ones like XLM-R (Con-
neau et al., 2019) and mBERT (Pires et al., 2019)
which have shown promising results for less com-
mon language NLP tasks. Therefore, this project
contributes to Vietnamese NLP through the intro-
duction of a new VTHM QA dataset as well as a
robust QA model tailored specifically for this area.
The involvement of AI in healthcare is grow-
ing at an unprecedented pace with a focus on drug
discovery, disease diagnosis, personal health care,
and others (Ching et al., 2018). Nevertheless, tra-
ditional medicine is also beginning to find its way
into AI systems despite being in nascent stages (Wu
et al., 2022); some instances where machine learn-
ing has been employed include predicting Chinese
medicinal herb components (Han et al., 2018) and
identification of possible drug-herbs interactions
(Tatonetti et al., 2012). However, more research is
needed to create AI-powered question-answering
systems for traditional medicine like Vietnamese
herbal medicine. This paper fills that void by pre-
senting ViHerbQA, a specialized QA model that
aims to provide necessary VTHM knowledge ac-
cess and comprehension.
By developing a specific question-answering
model on VTHM, we can combine Indigenous Tra-
ditional Medicine knowledge with state-of-the-art
natural language processing techniques. We ad-
dress the absence of a dedicated VTHM QA dataset
by creating one using LLMs with advanced prompt-
ing methods and rigorous evaluation procedures.
Furthermore, we demonstrate how powerful Viet-


namese language models can be adapted to do-
mains such as VTHM through pre-training and
fine-tuning strategies.
3
Dataset
The ViHerbQA dataset is a vast and intricate re-
source that has been designed to create and evalu-
ate QA systems focused on VTHM. It consists of
208,203 samples composed of various large lan-
guage models (LLMs) like GPT4o-mini, Gemini-
Pro, Gemini-Flash, and GPT-3.5. These samples
are composed of question-and-answer pairs that
have been generated by LLMs from herbal articles
to ensure a broad coverage of VTHM themes. To
assess the quality and usability of the dataset, we
use BLEU (Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE (Lin,
2004) as well as semantic similarity at word level
metrics.
3.1
Generation
Gemini-Flash, Gemini-Pro, and GPT-3.5 generate
the ViHerbQA’s dataset by drawing information
from articles about traditional medicinal herbs and
formulating question-answer pairs as illustrated in
Figure 1.
1. Article Crawling and Pre-processing: We col-
lected 745 herbal articles from YouMed 2, which is
a reliable source that offers comprehensive medical
knowledge in Vietnam. These articles undergo a
thorough pre-processing procedure such as clean-
ing of data, normalization, extraction of useful
herbal information such as title (herb’s name), de-
scription, chemical composition, use, application
methods, researches carried out on it, taboo actions
and remedies to make sure that just relevant data
goes to CSV format. It provides a firm foundation
for generating the question-answer pairs.
2. Question Generation: The preprocessed data
for each herb’s article falls into two main cate-
gories: the entire content and only the herbal pre-
scriptions content. The LLMs, including Gemini-
Flash, Gemini-Pro, and GPT-3.5, use the entire
content to create 20 questions. This comprehen-
sive approach allows the LLMs to synthesize all
the knowledge in the article, resulting in compre-
hensive questions. For the context of medicinal
remedies, an additional five questions are gener-
ated by LLMs based on the content of the provided
herbal prescriptions. When using LLMs, we ap-
2https://youmed.vn/tin-tuc/y-hoc-co-truyen/
duoc-lieu/
ply unique prompting techniques like Zero-Shot
and Few-Shot. We use multiple temperature val-
ues to create more diversity from beginner to ad-
vanced. Questions are created in this manner and
then reviewed to eliminate any redundant charac-
ters that may exist before saving the text file format
with each question located on 1 line of the file,
facilitating the creation of answers in the next step
is convenient. The prompt template used for this
Question Generation step is provided in Table 1.
In this step, we use Few Shot prompt techniques
with two prompt versions: one for the entire content
and one for the prescription content. In the prompt
template, {doc} represents the knowledge content
while {herb} denotes the herb’s name. The sum
of tokens for this step is approximately 2500 for
each query. An example of the output is shown in
Figure 3 in Appendix A when the entire content is
fed into LLMs, and another example is displayed in
Figure 5 in Appendix A when the herbal prescrip-
tions content is used.
3. Answer Generation: We have generated an-
swers corresponding to our prepared questions
by feeding information from herbal articles into
LLMs. Each question is strongly linked to its cor-
responding article content, ensuring that the re-
sponses are accurate and meaningful. In addition
to answering generation, we prompt LLMs to pro-
duce the relevant context derived from the origi-
nal article; the context should be one of the sec-
tions or subsections in the article, supporting the
Open-Book model training stage. Like in the above
stage, a thorough check is performed after gener-
ating questions using LLMs. The criteria met to
ensure question-answer pairs are included in Vi-
HerbQA’s training dataset include: must be Viet-
namese, must not contain meaningless characters,
and the answer, question, and context must re-
late professionally with each other. Therefore, we
have employed well-known metrics such as BLEU
(Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE (Lin, 2004), and
Semantic-Similarity, among others, for evaluation
purposes, which assured us about the quality of
the ViHerbQA dataset. Please refer to Figure 6 in
Appendix A for the prompt template in this Answer
Generation step. Figure 8 depicts the output of this
step, with questions created from the entire article
content as input. In contrast, Figure 10 shows the
output with input consisting of questions related to
traditional medicine remedies. We use Vietnamese
to design the prompt for this step instead of English
because this is essential; answers from LLMs need


Figure 1: ViHerbQA’s dataset creation pipeline has three stages, including (1) article crawling and pre-processing,
(2) question generation, and (3) answer generation.
Prompt template for the entire content
Prompt template the herbal prescriptions content
As a student, please generate 20 Vietnamese questions
naturally and generally about <{herb}>, which is a medic-
inal herb in Vietnamese Traditional Medicine using this
knowledge: “{docs}”
As a patient, please generate 5 Vietnamese questions nat-
urally and generally about oriental medicine remedies,
specifically, medicinal herbs used in Vietnamese Tradi-
tional Medicine. The generated questions should not con-
tain the proper names of any specific herbs, using this
knowledge: “{docs}”
Table 1: The prompt template for the Question Generation step.
Min word count
Max word count
Question
4
95
Answer
1
743
Context
10
2720
Table 2: Statistics on the number of words in questions,
answers, and contexts.
to be accurate and highly practical based on the
context content provided. Suitable for real situa-
tions. For that reason, with the desire for LLMs
to be able to read, understand, and extract infor-
mation from Vietnamese medicinal texts correctly,
we use prompts in Vietnamese to have language
uniformity to avoid confusion between languages
in providing answers to LLMs. The sum tokens for
this step are almost 6000 tokens for each query.
We perform statistical analysis steps before we
evaluate the dataset. These steps give an overview
of the language in the dataset. The data set spans
various language levels as illustrated in Table 2
ranging from elementary to most proficient. This
diversity is crucial since it makes the dataset re-
semble real-life settings, thus making post-trained
models more realistic.
This ensures that essential traditional medicine
terminology is preserved in the generated dataset.
We do this by visualizing the frequency of nouns
in the initial articles and within the dataset post-
generation. Figure 2 illustrates that the dataset
successfully maintains critical terms from the tra-
ditional medicine field, such as herb (cây thuốc),
medicinal herb (dược liệu), medicinal taste (vị
thuốc), traditional medicine (y học cổtruyền), and
doctor (bác sĩ).
3.2
Evaluation
Since we generated this dataset using LLMs, there
is no gold answer to evaluate. Therefore, we pro-
vide another suitable evaluation method based on
the word similarity between the generated dataset
and the input articles. We can use this method to
evaluate various datasets.
Our evaluation process begins with using the
Pyvi library 3, a robust tool that attaches a PosTag
for Vietnamese to each tokenizer found in articles,
generated questions and generated answers. We
then meticulously focus our evaluation on nouns,
verbs, and adjectives. These keyword types demon-
strate the accuracy of the generated dataset in
containing relevant traditional medical knowledge,
3https://github.com/trungtv/pyvi


Figure 2: Visualization of WordCloud including (a) WordCloud of Articles from Youmed, (b) WordCloud of
Questions generated by LLMs, and (c) WordCloud of Answers generated by LLMs.
making them the most suitable for our evaluation.
We evaluate the generated questions and answers
individually and then compute the weighted aver-
age of the questions and answers.
We use BLEU, ROUGE, and Semantic Simi-
larity to calculate the similarity between articles
and the generated dataset by measuring word-level
similarity with nouns (n), verbs (v), and adjectives
(adj). Semantic Similarity is calculated by using the
FastText library (Joulin et al., 2016) for Vietnamese
4 to get embedding of each word, then using the
cosine similarity measure to calculate similarity.
Let M be the metric used for calculation (M is
one of the three mentioned metrics). Mqa is the
evaluation result of M for the ViHerbQA’s dataset,
which is computed as the formula 1, in that, Mn,
Mv, and Madj are the similarity measures of nouns,
verbs, and adjectives.
2 × Mn + Mv + Madj
4
(1)
We assign a higher weight to nouns than verbs
and adjectives because, in terms of language, the
similarity of nouns in this field can prove the ex-
pert similarity to specialized words like traditional
medicine, doctors, and herbalists. Based on the
evaluation method we have provided, the results
shown in Table 3 show a high level of similarity in
both vocabulary and semantics between articles and
ViHerbQA’s dataset when reaching BLEU 60.26,
ROUGE 55.82, and Semantic Similarity 99.58.
After thoroughly cleaning, testing, and evalu-
ating, the ViHerbQA dataset has been partitioned
into three subsets: training, validation, and testing,
4https://huggingface.co/facebook/
fasttext-vi-vectors
BLEU
ROUGE
Semantic Similarity
60.26
55.82
99.58
Table 3: ViHerbQA’s dataset evaluation on three met-
rics, including BLEU, ROUGE, and Semantic Similar-
ity.
Training
Validation
Testing
145,742
56,214
6,247
Table 4: The number of question-answer pairs in each
training, validation, and testing set of the ViHerbQA
dataset.
with a distribution ratio of 7:2:1. Table 4 presents
each subset’s corresponding number of question-
answer pairs. Table 5 illustrates some samples of
the ViHerbQA dataset.
4
Experiments
In our research, we develop a novel two-phase ap-
proach to training QA models. The first phase,
which we call the “Open Book” phase, takes ad-
vantage of the model’s ability to retrieve relevant
information from a given context. This simulates
the situation of a student consulting reference ma-
terials during an exam.
The subsequent stage would be what we refer
to as the “Closed Book” phase. At this point, the
model is taught to give answers based on its own
knowledge obtained from the earlier phase and
without any contextual information. This phase
mimics the retrieval of previously learned material
in the form of a closed-book exam.
This two-stage approach has been particularly
successful in answering the specific problems of


Herb
Question
Answer
Context
Kim
ngân:
Vị
thuốc
quý với công
dụng bất ngờ
(Kim ngân:
A
valuable
herb
with
surprising
effects)
Bác sĩ ơi, có phương pháp
nào trong y học cổtruyền
giúp giảm triệu chứng sốt
cảm và mụn nhọt không?
(Doctor, is there any tra-
ditional medicine method
that helps reduce cold
symptoms and acne?)
Bài thuốc Ngân kiều tán chứa Kim ngân hoa
và Liên kiều có thểđược sửdụng đểchữa
mụn nhọt và sốt cảm. Cách dùng là mỗi vị
40g Kim ngân hoa và Liên kiều, cùng với các
vịkhác như Kinh giới tuệ, Cát cánh, Đạm đậu
sị, Bạc hà, Ngưu bàng tử, và Đạm trúc diệp,
tất cảsấy khô tán bột, có thểlàm thành viên
và uống 1 – 2 lần mỗi ngày, mỗi lần 12g bột.
(The “Ngân kiều tán” formula containing
Kim ngân hoa (Honeysuckle) and Liên kiều
(Forsythia) can be used to treat acne and cold
symptoms. The method: use 40g of each Kim
ngân hoa and Liên kiều, along with other
herbs like Kinh giới tuệ, Cát cánh, Đạm đậu
sị, Bạc hà, Ngưu bàng tử, and Đạm trúc diệp,
all dried and powdered. It can be made into
pills, and take 1-2 times daily, with each dose
being 12g of powder.)
Bài thuốc Ngân kiều tán Thường dùng chữa
mụn nhọt, sốt cảm: Kim ngân hoa và Liên
kiều mỗi vị40g; Kinh giới tuệ16g; Cát cánh
24g; Đạm đậu sị20g; Bạc hà và Ngưu bàng
tửmỗi vị24g; Đạm trúc diệp 15g. Tất cảsấy
khô tán bột. Có thểlàm thành viên. Uống 1
– 2 lần mỗi ngày, mỗi lần 12g bột.... (The
“Ngân kiều tán” formula is commonly used
to treat acne and colds: Kim ngân hoa and
Liên kiều, 40g each; Kinh giới tuệ16g; Cát
cánh 24g; Đạm đậu sị20g; Bạc hà and Ngưu
bàng tử, 24g each; Đạm trúc diệp 15g. All
dried and powdered. Can be made into pills.
Take 1-2 times daily, 12g per dose...)
Mộc thông:
Vịthuốc có
công
dụng
lợi tiểu (Mộc
thông:
An
herb
with
diuretic
properties.)
Trong trường hợp nào cần
phải kiêng kịkhi sửdụng
Mộc thông và những tác
động tiêu cực có thểxảy
ra? (In what cases should
Mộc thông be avoided,
and what negative effects
can occur?)
Người suy nhược, hoạt tinh, mệt mỏi, không
có thấp nhiệt bên trong thì cấm dùng. Phụnữ
có thai và những người tiểu tiện quá nhiều
không được dùng. (Those who are weak, ex-
periencing spermatorrhea, fatigue, or do not
have internal damp-heat should avoid using
it. Pregnant women and those who urinate
excessively should not use it.)
Người suy nhược, hoạt tinh, mệt mỏi, không
có thấp nhiệt bên trong thì cấm dùng. Phụnữ
có thai và những người tiểu tiện quá nhiều
không được dùng. Mộc thông có công dụng
lợi tiểu tiện, trịbí tiểu, tiểu gắt buốt, ngoài ra
còn bịbếkinh. Những thông tin trên đây chỉ
mang tính chất tham khảo. Tốt nhất, bạn cần
tham khảo ý kiến bác sĩ trước khi sửdụng
các vịthuốc!... (Those who are weak, expe-
riencing spermatorrhea, fatigue, or do not
have internal damp-heat should avoid using
it. Pregnant women and those who urinate
excessively should not use it. Mộc thông has
diuretic properties, treating urinary retention
and painful urination, and can also address
amenorrhea. The information provided here
is for reference only. It is best to consult a
doctor before using any herbal medicines!...)
Vông
nem:
Thứlá cây
chữa
mất
ngủhiệu quả
(Vông nem:
A leaf that
effectively
treats
in-
somnia)
Vông nem có tác dụng an
thần như thếnào? (How
does Vông nem have a
sedative effect?)
Vông nem có tác dụng an thần nhờvào các
thành phần hóa học có trong lá, giúp làm
dịu hệthần kinh. (Vông nem has a sedative
effect thanks to the chemical components in
its leaves, which help to calm the nervous
system.)
Lá Vông nem có tác dụng ức chếhệthần
kinh trung ương, làm yên tĩnh, gây ngủ, hạ
nhiệt, hạhuyết áp...(Vông nem leaves have
effects that inhibit the central nervous system,
inducing calmness, sleep, reducing fever, and
lowering blood pressure...)
Table 5: Some samples of ViHerbQA dataset.
VTHM. With this approach, our model allows high
and complex comprehension of VTHM while being
able to give exact and trusted feedback without any
context.
4.1
Model
The development of ViHerbQA begins with pre-
training the ViT5 model (Phan et al., 2022a) for
the Open-Book task using the constructed dataset.
Preparing the model to answer questions within
the context of the Open-Book task will enable ex-
haustive learning of VTHM’s knowledge from the
provided contexts. Given that VTHM necessitates
high exactness and trustworthiness, the Open-Book
pre-trained model will enhance the capability to
supply more accurate answers for the Close-Book
task in the subsequent step.
Upon reaching convergence in training with the
Open-Book task, we will employ that model to
fine-tune for the Close-Book task. We leverage a
VTHM knowledge model for fine-tuning, assur-
ing ViHerbQA delivers more exact, experienced
answers without needing the context for this field.
We use ViT5 (Phan et al., 2022a) to take advan-
tage of the architecture’s encoding and decoding
capabilities and the model’s ability to understand
Vietnamese to serve as a suitable basis for training
ViHerbQA, a QA model serving the Vietnamese


BLEU
Rouge1
Rouge2
RougeL
RougeLsum
BertScore (P)
BertScore (R)
BertScore (F1)
Large Language Models
GPT3.5
6.19
31.28
17.62
23.40
24.99
66.13
74.34
69.93
Geminiflash
3.42
22.41
12.79
17.19
19.14
60.37
71.92
65.56
Llama3.1-8B
6.24
31.32
15.59
22.51
22.81
64.27
71.42
67.48
Vietnamese Transformer Models
ViT5base
4.77
24.17
11.35
19.11
19.15
60.54
60.81
60.58
ViT5large
0.51
2.43
0.48
2.28
2.28
38.91
32.99
35.66
BartPhobase
14.26
49.35
29.64
38.30
38.37
77.03
70.28
73.43
BartPho
14.15
49.26
29.46
38.19
38.27
77.00
70.28
73.42
ViHerbQA (our)
OpenBookbase
31.72
59.90
47.74
52.84
52.84
85.57
77.78
81.36
OpenBooklarge
33.00
60.47
49.08
53.83
53.85
86.14
78.24
81.87
CloseBookbase
31.17
59.44
46.98
52.19
52.21
85.22
77.60
81.11
CloseBooklarge
32.43
60.01
48.30
53.20
53.21
85.78
78.06
81.62
Llama3.1-8Bft
8.80
37.54
20.41
26.70
27.53
65.11
74.97
69.38
Table 6: Evaluation of ViHerbQA compared to other models based on BLEU, Rouge, and BertScore metrics.
Traditional Herb Medicine field.
We employ RTX 3090 - 24GB VRAM to train
ViHerbQA on ViT5-base and ViT5-large instances.
The models undergo five epochs of training with a
batch size of four for ViT5-base and two for ViT5-
large during both the Open-Book and Close-Book
phases. We use the Adam optimizer with a learning
rate set to 1e-5. For ViT5-base, the Question Max
Length and Answer Max Length are 512 and 1024,
respectively, while for ViT5-large, they are 256 and
512.
4.2
Fine-tuning Llama3.1-8B
We have fine-tuned the Llama3.1-8B, one of the
recent modern LLM models, through two steps:
pre-training and fine-tuning. During the first stage,
the model is pre-trained on the entire text from the
articles about VTHM. This step is essential for the
model to grasp the knowledge of VTHM before
moving on to the second stage, which is fine-tuning
the model for the QA task. The LoRA technique is
used for training in both stages. The epochs for the
first stage are 15, and the second stage is 2. Accord-
ing to Table 6, after fine-tuning the VTHM dataset,
Llama3.1-8B outperforms the original Llama3.1-
8B and the Llama3.1 versions with more extensive
parameters. However, compared to the model built
based on the ViT5 model, the results of Llama3.1-
8B still need improvement. This suggests that using
a specialized model for Vietnamese would be more
effective than a multilanguage LLM.
4.3
Result
We use the test set of the ViHerbQA dataset to
evaluate the ViHerbQA model in both the open-
book and close-book stages. We also evaluated
the model, which is fine-tuned Llama3.1-8B on
our dataset, and compared it with the original
Llama3.1-8B. Additionally, we assess two LLMs,
GPT3.5 and Gemini Flash, to address concerns
about the capability of today’s LLMs to provide
accurate answers within almost all domains. Fur-
thermore, we exhaustively consider the ViHerbQA
model compared to strong Vietnamese transformer
models such as ViT5 (Phan et al., 2022a) and Bart-
Pho (Tran et al., 2021).
The results presented in Table 6 demonstrate the
exceptional linguistic and semantic capabilities of
the ViHerbQA model in the VTHM domain, as evi-
denced by metrics such as BLEU, ROUGE (includ-
ing Rouge1, Rouge2, RougeL, and RougeLSum),
and BertScore (including BertScore Precision (P),
BertScore Recall (R), and BertScore F1) for Viet-
namese, with BertScore values greater than 80%
for both the base and large versions, the ViHerbQA
model shows very high semantic accuracy. More-
over, BLEU values exceeding 30% and ROUGE
values surpassing 50% underscore ViHerbQA’s di-
verse linguistic abilities. Furthermore, when fine-
tuning the Llama3.1-8B in our dataset, the results
are significantly better than the original LLM, even
outperforming other LLMs in almost all metrics.
Refer to Table 7 for some responses from the
ViHerbQA model from the ViHerbQA test dataset.
The Question column in this table presents the input
question fed into the model; the Gold Answer is
the answer of the test dataset, and the Predicted
Answer is the reply of the ViHerbQA model.
ViT5 and BartPho are two transformer mod-
els that were powerfully developed for Vietnamese


Question
Gold Answer
Predicted Answer
Thời gian đắp thuốc từlá bàng tươi lên
vùng da bịbệnh là bao lâu? (How long
should the poultice made from fresh
leaves be applied to the affected area?)
Thời gian đắp thuốc từlá bàng tươi
lên vùng da bịbệnh là 15 phút. (The
poultice made from fresh leaves should
be applied to the affected area for 15
minutes.)
Thời gian đắp thuốc từlá bàng tươi
lên vùng da bịbệnh là 15 phút. (The
poultice made from fresh leaves should
be applied to the affected area for 15
minutes.)
Mộc thông có công dụng chính nào?
(What are the main uses of Mộc
thông?)
Mộc thông có tác dụng lợi tiểu tiện,
thông huyết mạch. (Mộc thông has di-
uretic properties, treating urinary re-
tention, and regulating blood circula-
tion.)
Mộc thông có tác dụng lợi tiểu tiện,
thông huyết mạch. (Mộc thông has di-
uretic properties, treating urinary re-
tention, and regulating blood circula-
tion.)
Cách sửdụng Bấc đèn đểchữa tim hồi
hộp và miệng khát như thếnào? (How
is Bấc đèn used to treat shortness of
breath and dry mouth?)
Bấc 4 g, Lá tre, Mạch môn mỗi vị12 g,
sắc uống. (Bấc 4g, Bamboo leaves, and
Mạch môn 12g each, to be decocted
into a drink.)
Bấc 4 g, Lá tre, Mạch môn mỗi vị12 g,
sắc uống. (Bấc 4g, Bamboo leaves, and
Mạch môn 12g each, to be decocted
into a drink.)
Tinh dầu phong lữcó đặc tính gì có lợi
cho da nhờn? (Does Phong lữ(Gera-
nium) oil have any benefits for oily
skin?)
Với đặc tính kiềm dầu, tinh dầu phong
lữcó thểgiúp cân bằng lượng dầu
trên da. (With its astringent proper-
ties, Phong lữoil can help balance the
skin’s oil levels.)
Với đặc tính kiềm dầu, tinh dầu phong
lữcó thểgiúp cân bằng lượng dầu
trên da. (With its astringent proper-
ties, Phong lữoil can help balance the
skin’s oil levels.)
Các tác dụng phụcó thểgặp khi sử
dụng thần xạlà gì? (What side effects
might occur when using kidney radia-
tion?)
Khi dùng có thểgây ra các tác dụng
phụnhư đau bụng, tiêu chảy, đau
đầu (It can cause side effects such
as abdominal pain, diarrhea, and
headaches.)
Khi dùng có thểgây ra các tác dụng
phụnhư đau bụng, tiêu chảy, đau
đầu (It can cause side effects such
as abdominal pain, diarrhea, and
headaches.)
Liên tu có thểảnh hưởng đến cơ thể
như thếnào trong trường hợp sửdụng
dài hạn, đặc biệt là đối với người suy
nhược hoặc có tiểu tiện bí? (How can
Lotus affect the body in cases of long-
term use, especially for those who are
debilitated or have urinary retention?)
Cơ thểsuy nhược, táo bón, tiểu tiện
bí không nên dùng Liên tu. (People
with a debilitated body, constipation,
or urinary retention should not use Lo-
tus seeds.)
Cơ thểsuy nhược, táo bón, tiểu tiện
bí không nên dùng Liên tu. (People
with a debilitated body, constipation,
or urinary retention should not use Lo-
tus seeds.)
Table 7: Some responses of the ViHerbQA model.
only. However, with the result in Table 6, we can
see that two models have yet to have the ability to
solve questions in VTHM.
The outcomes of GPT3.5 and Gemini Flash
show that while state-of-the-art LLMs excel in nu-
merous domains, they have significant limitations
in expert domains, particularly VTHM. This un-
locks the opportunity for researchers to investigate
new approaches that mix modern technologies with
traditional wisdom, as demonstrated by ViHerbQA.
5
Conclusion
This work presents ViHerbQA, the first question-
answering system for VTHM. The absence of
VTHM-specific QA datasets is addressed by us-
ing various state-of-the-art LLMs to build a dataset
with 208,203 question-answer pairs that are then
carefully evaluated using numerous appropriate
language evaluation metrics. With its foundation on
sturdy ViT5 architecture, we have constructed the
ViHerbQA model in two stages, and it performs
better than any other model in terms of answer-
ing questions about VTHM. Such findings indicate
that ViHerbQA outperforms competitive baselines
consisting of state-of-the-art LLMs and existing
Vietnamese transformer models, which further em-
phasize the importance of domain knowledge cou-
pled with fine-tuning for more precise applications
within this field. This research contributes valuable
resources for the VTHM community and motivates
studies combining traditional medicine and modern
artificial intelligence.
6
Future work
We will use explainable AI techniques for the Vi-
HerbQA model in the future. These include making
visible attention and determining which features
are essential to interpreting the model’s responses.
Consequently, trust levels in this system may in-
crease, and more understanding about information
in VTHM may be offered. In this way, we hope to
see big strides in AI-assisted traditional medicine
for a more informed application of VTHM into
contemporary healthcare systems.
We will also integrate the DPO technique for fur-
ther enhancement of ViHerbQA in line with users’
preferences. It enables us to adjust the system so
that it can produce responses that are more rele-


vant, informative, and culturally sensitive within
the domain of VTHM through direct optimization
of the model parameters using human feedback.
References
Danqi Chen, Adam Fisch, Jason Weston, and Antoine
Bordes. 2017. Reading wikipedia to answer open-
domain questions. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.00051.
Zeming Chen, Alejandro Hernández Cano, Angelika
Romanou, Antoine Bonnet, Kyle Matoba, Francesco
Salvi, Matteo Pagliardini, Simin Fan, Andreas
K¨opf, Amirkeivan Mohtashami, Alexandre Sallinen,
Alireza Sakhaeirad, Vinitra Swamy, Igor Krawczuk,
Deniz Bayazit, Axel Marmet, Syrielle Montariol,
Mary-Anne Hartley, Martin Jaggi, and Antoine
Bosselut. 2023.
Meditron-70b: Scaling medical
pretraining for large language models.
Preprint,
arXiv:2311.16079.
Hao Cheng, Yelong Shen, Xiaodong Liu, Pengcheng He,
Weizhu Chen, and Jianfeng Gao. 2021. Unitedqa: A
hybrid approach for open domain question answering.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.00178.
Travers Ching, Daniel S Himmelstein, Brett K Beaulieu-
Jones, Alexandr A Kalinin, Brian T Do, Gregory P
Way, Enrico Ferrero, Paul-Michael Agapow, Michael
Zietz, Michael M Hoffman, et al. 2018. Opportuni-
ties and obstacles for deep learning in biology and
medicine.
Journal of the royal society interface,
15(141):20170387.
Alexis Conneau, Kartikay Khandelwal, Naman Goyal,
Vishrav Chaudhary, Guillaume Wenzek, Francisco
Guzmán, Edouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zettle-
moyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Unsupervised
cross-lingual representation learning at scale. CoRR,
abs/1911.02116.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2018. Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirectional transformers for language understand-
ing. arXiv preprint arXiv:1810.04805.
Ke Han, Lei Zhang, Miao Wang, Rui Zhang, Chunyu
Wang, and Chengzhi Zhang. 2018. Prediction meth-
ods of herbal compounds in chinese medicinal herbs.
Molecules, 23(9):2303.
Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, Piotr Bojanowski,
Matthijs Douze, Hérve Jégou, and Tomas Mikolov.
2016. Fasttext.zip: Compressing text classification
models. Preprint, arXiv:1612.03651.
Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. Rouge: A package for automatic
evaluation of summaries.
In Text summarization
branches out, pages 74–81.
Yizhen Luo, Jiahuan Zhang, Siqi Fan, Kai Yang,
Yushuai Wu, Mu Qiao, and Zaiqing Nie. 2023.
Biomedgpt:
Open
multimodal
generative
pre-
trained transformer for biomedicine.
Preprint,
arXiv:2308.09442.
Dat Quoc Nguyen, Linh The Nguyen, Chi Tran,
Dung Ngoc Nguyen, Dinh Phung, and Hung Bui.
2023. PhoGPT: Generative Pre-training for Viet-
namese. arXiv preprint, arXiv:2311.02945.
Dat Quoc Nguyen and Anh Tuan Nguyen. 2020.
PhoBERT: Pre-trained language models for Viet-
namese. In Findings of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: EMNLP 2020, pages 1037–1042,
Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Nhung Thi-Hong Nguyen, Phuong Phan-Dieu Ha,
Luan Thanh Nguyen, Kiet Van Nguyen, and Ngan
Luu-Thuy Nguyen. 2022.
Spbertqa: A two-
stage question answering system based on sen-
tence transformers for medical texts.
Preprint,
arXiv:2206.09600.
Barlas Oguz, Xilun Chen, Vladimir Karpukhin, Stan
Peshterliev, Dmytro Okhonko, Michael Schlichtkrull,
Sonal Gupta, Yashar Mehdad, and Scott Yih. 2022.
UniK-QA: Unified representations of structured and
unstructured knowledge for open-domain question
answering. In Findings of the Association for Com-
putational Linguistics: NAACL 2022, pages 1535–
1546, Seattle, United States. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-
Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evalu-
ation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the
40th annual meeting of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics, pages 311–318.
Long Phan, Hieu Tran, Hieu Nguyen, and Trieu H
Trinh. 2022a.
Vit5: Pretrained text-to-text trans-
former for vietnamese language generation. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2205.06457.
Long Phan, Hieu Tran, Hieu Nguyen, and Trieu H.
Trinh. 2022b.
Vit5: Pretrained text-to-text trans-
former for vietnamese language generation. Preprint,
arXiv:2205.06457.
Telmo Pires, Eva Schlinger, and Dan Garrette. 2019.
How multilingual is multilingual bert?
CoRR,
abs/1906.01502.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Katherine
Lee, Sharan Narang, Michael Matena, Yanqi Zhou,
Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. 2020. Exploring the lim-
its of transfer learning with a unified text-to-text
transformer. Journal of machine learning research,
21(140):1–67.
Yang Tan, Mingchen Li, Zijie Huang, Huiqun Yu, and
Guisheng Fan. 2023. Medchatzh: a better medical
adviser learns from better instructions.
Preprint,
arXiv:2309.01114.
Nicholas P Tatonetti, Guy Haskin Fernald, and Russ B
Altman. 2012. A novel signal detection algorithm
for identifying hidden drug-drug interactions in ad-
verse event reports. Journal of the American Medical
Informatics Association, 19(1):79–85.


Nguyen Luong Tran, Duong Minh Le, and Dat Quoc
Nguyen. 2021.
Bartpho: Pre-trained sequence-
to-sequence models for vietnamese.
CoRR,
abs/2109.09701.
Chaoyong Wu, Jianxin Chen, Elaine Lai-Han Leung,
Hang Chang, and Xu Wang. 2022. Artificial intelli-
gence in traditional medicine.
Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime Car-
bonell, Russ R Salakhutdinov, and Quoc V Le. 2019.
Xlnet: Generalized autoregressive pretraining for lan-
guage understanding. Advances in neural informa-
tion processing systems, 32.
Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q
Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi. 2019. Bertscore: Eval-
uating text generation with bert.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:1904.09675.
A
Prompt and Output of the Dataset
Generation step


1. Actiso làm thếnào giúp bảo vệgan và giải độc gan? Cơ chếhoạt động của nó là gì?
2. Thành phần hóa học chính của Actiso bao gồm những gì và làm thếnào các thành phần này
ảnh hưởng đến sức khỏe của gan và cơ thể?
3. Tác dụng lợi tiểu và lợi mật của Actiso được thểhiện như thếnào trong việc điều trịbệnh phù,
thấp khớp và các vấn đềliên quan đến gan?
4. Cách sửdụng và liều dùng Actiso như thếnào đểđạt hiệu quảtốt nhất trong điều trịvà bảo vệ
sức khỏe?
5. Có những nghiên cứu nào đã chứng minh vềtác dụng của Actiso trong việc bảo vệgan, hỗtrợ
tiêu hóa, và ngăn ngừa các bệnh lý khác không?
6. Liệu Actiso có thểđược sửdụng trong việc hỗtrợđiều trịung thư và giảm nguy cơ mắc bệnh
không? Cơ chếhoạt động của nó là gì?
7. Trong y học cổtruyền, có những lời khuyên cụthểnào vềcách sửdụng và kết hợp Actiso với
các loại thực phẩm khác đểtối ưu hóa tác dụng của nó?
8. Có những tác dụng phụnào có thểxảy ra khi sửdụng Actiso trong điều trịdài hạn? Làm thế
nào đểđối phó với những tác dụng này?
9. Actiso có ảnh hưởng đến sức khỏe xương và tim mạch như thếnào? Có cách nào đểtăng
cường hiệu quảcủa việc sửdụng Actiso trong việc bảo vệhệxương và tim mạch không?
10. Trong trường hợp cần thiết, liệu có những biện pháp thay thếnào có thểsửdụng đểthay thế
hoặc bổsung cho việc sửdụng Actiso?
11. Có những biện pháp nào cần được thực hiện đểđảm bảo an toàn và hiệu quảkhi sửdụng
Actiso, đặc biệt là khi kết hợp với các loại thuốc khác?
12. Có những nghiên cứu nào vềtương tác giữa Actiso và các loại thuốc hoặc thực phẩm khác mà
chúng ta nên biết?
13. Actiso có thểảnh hưởng đến quá trình tiêu hóa hay hấp thụchất dinh dưỡng không? Nếu có,
thì làm thếnào?
14. Trong trường hợp sửdụng Actiso đểgiảm cân, liệu có những biện pháp điều chỉnh chếđộăn
uống và lối sống cần thiết đểđạt hiệu quảtốt nhất không?
15. Có nên sửdụng Actiso trong trường hợp tựđiều trịcác vấn đềsức khỏe nhẹmà không tham
khảo ý kiến của chuyên gia y tếkhông?
16. Làm thếnào đểđảm bảo tuân thủđúng liều lượng và cách sửdụng khi sửdụng Actiso?
17. Actiso có thểgây ra tình trạng phụthuộc hay nghiện nếu sửdụng kéo dài không?
18. Có những hạn chếhay rủi ro gì khi sửdụng Actiso, đặc biệt là trong nhóm người dễbịảnh
hưởng như trẻem, phụnữmang thai hoặc cho con bú, người già, và người mắc các bệnh mãn
tính?
19. Liệu có những tác động phụnào có thểxuất hiện khi sửdụng Actiso trong điều trịdài hạn?
20. Trong y học cổtruyền, liệu có những lời khuyên nào vềcách lựa chọn, thu hái và bảo quản
Actiso đểđảm bảo hiệu quảvà an toàn?
Figure 3: Sample output for the Question Generation step with the Entire Content input.


1. How does Artichoke help protect the liver and detoxify it? What is its mechanism of action?
2. What are the main chemical components of Artichoke, and how do these components affect
liver health and overall health?
3. How are the diuretic and choleretic effects of Artichoke manifested in the treatment of edema,
rheumatism, and liver-related issues?
4. How should Artichoke be used, and what is the recommended dosage to achieve the best
results in treatment and health protection?
5. Are there any studies that have proven the effects of Artichoke in protecting the liver, aiding
digestion, and preventing other diseases?
6. Can Artichoke be used to support cancer treatment and reduce the risk of disease? What is its
mechanism of action?
7. In traditional medicine, are there specific recommendations on how to use and combine
Artichoke with other foods to optimize its effects?
8. What side effects might occur when using Artichoke for long-term treatment? How can these
side effects be managed?
9. How does Artichoke affect bone and cardiovascular health? Is there a way to enhance the
effectiveness of using Artichoke in protecting the skeletal and cardiovascular systems?
10. In necessary cases, are there any alternative measures that can be used to replace or supple-
ment the use of Artichoke?
11. What measures should be taken to ensure safety and effectiveness when using Artichoke,
especially when combined with other medications?
12. Are there any studies on the interactions between Artichoke and other drugs or foods that we
should be aware of?
13. Can Artichoke affect the digestion or absorption of nutrients? If so, how?
14. In the case of using Artichoke for weight loss, are there necessary dietary and lifestyle
adjustments to achieve the best results?
15. Is it advisable to use Artichoke for self-treatment of minor health issues without consulting a
healthcare professional?
16. How can one ensure proper adherence to dosage and usage instructions when using Artichoke?
17. Can prolonged use of Artichoke lead to dependence or addiction?
18. What limitations or risks are associated with using Artichoke, especially in vulnerable groups
such as children, pregnant or breastfeeding women, the elderly, and those with chronic
conditions?
19. Are there any potential side effects that may appear with long-term use of Artichoke in
treatment?
20. In traditional medicine, are there any recommendations on how to select, harvest, and preserve
Artichoke to ensure effectiveness and safety?
Figure 4: Sample output for the Question Generation step with the Entire Content input (translated to English).


1. Tôi muốn hỏi vềphương pháp truyền thống dùng dược liệu đểđiều trịbệnh sổmũi và say nắng,
bạn có thểchia sẻthông tin vềđiều này không? (I would like to ask about traditional methods
using herbal remedies to treat a runny nose and heatstroke. Can you share information about
this?)
2. Có bài thuốc dân gian nào được sửdụng trong y học cổtruyền đểchữa bệnh ho, sốt và sưng
amidan không? (Are there any folk remedies used in traditional medicine to treat coughs,
fever, and swollen tonsils?)
3. Xin bác sĩ tư vấn vềviệc sửdụng dược liệu từcây Bướm bạc đểđiều trịviêm thận, phù và
giúp lợi tiểu. (Please advise on the use of herbal remedies from the Butterfly Pea plant to
treat nephritis, edema, and aid diuresis.)
4. Tôi đang quan tâm đến bài thuốc truyền thống dành cho bệnh khí hư bạch đới, bạn có thể
chia sẻthông tin chi tiết vềcách sửdụng không? (I am interested in traditional remedies for
treating leukorrhea (abnormal vaginal discharge). Could you provide detailed information on
how to use them?)
5. Bác sĩ có thểgiới thiệu vềcách sửdụng dược liệu từlá cây Mướp và lá cây Bướm bạc đểchữa
lởloét da không? (Could you introduce how to use herbal remedies from Luffa leaves and
Butterfly Pea leaves to treat skin ulcers?)
Figure 5: Sample output for the Question Generation step with the Herbal Prescriptions Content input.


Bạn hãy đóng vai trò là một chuyên gia y học cổtruyền Việt Nam, am hiểu sâu rộng vềcác loại
dược liệu. Bạn được cung cấp một văn bản khoa học vềdược liệu {duoc_lieu} với danh mục chi
tiết. Nhiệm vụcủa bạn là đọc kỹvăn bản và trảlời các câu hỏi dựa trên thông tin được cung cấp.
Đầu vào:
• DANH MỤC: Danh mục của văn bản khoa học, mỗi mục trên một dòng.
• CONTEXT: Nội dung chính của văn bản khoa học vềdược liệu.
• Câu hỏi: Danh sách các câu hỏi liên quan đến dược liệu, mỗi câu hỏi trên một dòng.
Yêu cầu:
• Trảlời toàn bộcác câu hỏi chỉdựa trên thông tin từcontext.
• Diễn giải câu trảlời từgóc nhìn của chuyên gia y học cổtruyền khi phù hợp.
• Sửdụng thuật ngữy học cổtruyền Việt Nam khi cần thiết.
• Trích dẫn chính xác phần context liên quan đến câu trảlời.
• Nếu không có đủthông tin đểtrảlời, hãy ghi: “Đểcó được thông tin chính xác, vui lòng liên
hệvới bác sĩ chuyên môn.”
• Định dạng đầu ra: JSON, bao gồm một danh sách các từđiển. Mỗi từđiển gồm ba phần tử:
– question: Câu hỏi đầu vào đã được chuẩn hóa (loại bỏký tựthừa, xuống dòng).
– answer: Câu trảlời đầy đủvà chính xác.
– knowledge: Tiêu đềcủa mục trong {danh_muc} được sửdụng đểtrảlời câu hỏi.
Ví dụ:
[
{
“question”: “Thành phần hóa học của Actiso chứa những hợp chất nào quan trọng?”,
“answer”: “Actiso chứa các hợp chất quan trọng như axit caffeic, flavonoid, lacton sesquiterpene,
anthocyan”,
,→
“knowledge”: “2. Thành phần hóa học chứa trong Actiso''
},
{
``question”: “Actiso có tác dụng gì đối với gan?”,
“answer”: “Actiso giúp tăng cường chức năng gan như làm tăng bài tiết dịch mật và giảm nồng độcác
độc tố”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Công dụng của Actiso''
}
]
DANH MỤC
{danh_muc}
CONTEXT:
{context}
Câu hỏi
{list_of_questions}
Hãy trảlời các câu hỏi trên theo định dạng JSON đã yêu cầu.
Figure 6: Prompt template for the Answer Generation step.


You will play the role of a traditional Vietnamese medicine expert with deep knowledge of various
medicinal herbs. You are provided with a scientific document about the medicinal herb {herb}
with a detailed list. Your task is to carefully read the document and answer questions based on the
provided information.
Input:
• LIST: The list of the scientific document, each item on a new line.
• CONTEXT: The main content of the scientific document about the medicinal herb.
• Questions: A list of questions related to the medicinal herb, each question on a new line.
Requirements:
• Answer all questions based only on the information from the context.
• Explain the answers from the perspective of a traditional medicine expert when appropriate.
• Use Vietnamese traditional medicine terminology when necessary.
• Accurately cite the relevant part of the context in the answer.
• If there is insufficient information to answer, write: “For accurate information, please consult
a specialist.”
• Output format: JSON, including a list of dictionaries. Each dictionary contains three elements:
– question: The standardized input question (removing extraneous characters, line breaks).
– answer: The full and accurate answer.
– knowledge: The title of the section in {list} used to answer the question.
Example:
[
{
“question”: “What important compounds are contained in the chemical composition of Artichoke?”,
“answer”: “Artichoke contains important compounds such as caffeic acid, flavonoids, sesquiterpene
lactones, anthocyanins”,
,→
“knowledge”: “2. The chemical composition contained in Artichoke.”
},
{
“question”: “What are the effects of Artichoke on the liver?”,
“answer”: “Artichoke helps enhance liver function, such as increasing bile secretion and reducing toxin
levels”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Uses of Artichoke”
}
]
MENU
{menu}
CONTEXT:
{context}
Questions
{list_of_questions}
Please answer the questions in the required JSON format.
Figure 7: Prompt template for the Answer Generation step (translated to English).


[
{
“question”: “Actiso làm thếnào giúp bảo vệgan và giải độc gan? Cơ chếhoạt động của nó là gì?”,
“answer”: “Actiso chứa cynarin và axit caffeoylquinic, là những chất chống oxy hóa có thểbảo
vệgan. Chúng giúp làm giảm nồng độcác độc tốcó hại cho gan và có thểgiúp sửa chữa
các tếbào gan bịtổn thương.”,
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Các nghiên cứu vềtác dụng của Actiso”
},
{
“question”: “Thành phần hóa học chính của Actiso bao gồm những gì và làm thếnào các thành
phần này ảnh hưởng đến sức khỏe của gan và cơ thể?”,
,→
“answer”: “Actiso chứa các hợp chất như dẫn xuất axit caffeic, flavonoid, lacton sesquiterpene,
anthocyan, và tannin. Những hợp chất này có tác dụng dược lý quan trọng, hỗtrợchức
năng gan và sức khỏe tổng thể.”,
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “2. Thành phần hóa học chứa trong Actiso”
},
{
“question”: “Tác dụng lợi tiểu và lợi mật của Actiso được thểhiện như thếnào trong việc điều
trịbệnh phù, thấp khớp và các vấn đềliên quan đến gan?”,
,→
“answer”: “Actiso có tác dụng lợi tiểu, giúp thông tiểu tiện và thông mật, từđó hỗtrợđiều trị
bệnh phù, thấp khớp, và các bệnh yếu gan thận.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Công dụng của Actiso”
},
{
“question”: “Cách sửdụng và liều dùng Actiso như thếnào đểđạt hiệu quảtốt nhất trong điều
trịvà bảo vệsức khỏe?”,
,→
“answer”: “Actiso có thểdùng lá tươi hoặc khô, thuốc sắc từ5-10% hoặc 2-10g lá khô/ngày. Có
thểchếthành cao mềm hay lỏng đểsửdụng dưới dạng giọt, mỗi lần 10-40 giọt.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Cách dùng và liều dùng Actiso”
},
{
“question”: “Có những nghiên cứu nào đã chứng minh vềtác dụng của Actiso trong việc bảo vệ
gan, hỗtrợtiêu hóa, và ngăn ngừa các bệnh lý khác không?”,
,→
“answer”: “Nhiều nghiên cứu đã chứng minh Actiso giúp bảo vệgan, tăng bài tiết dịch mật, hỗ
trợtiêu hóa và ngăn ngừa các bệnh lý như tim mạch và ung thư.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Các nghiên cứu vềtác dụng của Actiso”
},
{
“question”: “Liệu Actiso có thểđược sửdụng trong việc hỗtrợđiều trịung thư và giảm nguy cơ
mắc bệnh không? Cơ chếhoạt động của nó là gì?”,
,→
“answer”: “Actiso chứa các chất chống oxy hóa có thểgiúp ngăn ngừa tổn thương tếbào và biến
đổi gene dẫn đến ung thư, do đó có thểgiảm nguy cơ mắc bệnh.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Các nghiên cứu vềtác dụng của Actiso”
},
{
“question”: “Trong y học cổtruyền, có những lời khuyên cụthểnào vềcách sửdụng và kết hợp
Actiso với các loại thực phẩm khác đểtối ưu hóa tác dụng của nó?”,
,→
“answer”: “Đểtối ưu hóa tác dụng của Actiso, nên kết hợp với chếđộăn uống cân bằng, lành
mạnh và có thểsửdụng cùng với các loại thực phẩm giàu chất xơ đểhỗtrợtiêu hóa.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Công dụng của Actiso”
},
{
“question”: “Có những tác dụng phụnào có thểxảy ra khi sửdụng Actiso trong điều trịdài
hạn? Làm thếnào đểđối phó với những tác dụng này?”,
,→
“answer”: “Actiso không gây độc, nhưng nếu có tác dụng phụ, cần theo dõi sức khỏe và tham
khảo ý kiến bác sĩ đểđiều chỉnh liều dùng hoặc ngừng sửdụng.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Cách dùng và liều dùng Actiso”
}
]
Figure 8: Sample output of the Answer Generation step for the Entire Content .


[
{
“question”: “How does Artichoke help protect the liver and detoxify it? What is its mechanism
of action?”,
,→
“answer”: “Artichoke contains cynarin and caffeoylquinic acid, which are antioxidants that can
protect the liver. They help reduce levels of harmful toxins in the liver and may assist in
repairing damaged liver cells.”,
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Studies on the effects of Artichoke.”
},
{
“question”: “What are the main chemical components of Artichoke, and how do these
components affect liver health and overall health?”,
,→
“answer”: “Artichoke contains compounds such as caffeic acid derivatives, flavonoids,
sesquiterpene lactones, anthocyanins, and tannins. These compounds have important
pharmacological effects, supporting liver function and overall health.”,
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “2. The chemical composition contained in Artichoke.”
},
{
“question”: “How are the diuretic and choleretic effects of Artichoke manifested in the treatment
of edema, rheumatism, and liver-related issues?”,
,→
“answer”: “Artichoke has diuretic effects, helping with urination and bile secretion, thereby
supporting the treatment of edema, rheumatism, and weak liver and kidney diseases.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Uses of Artichoke”
},
{
“question”: “How should Artichoke be used, and what is the recommended dosage to achieve the
best results in treatment and health protection?”,
,→
“answer”: “Artichoke can be used fresh or dried, decocted at 5-10%, or 2-10g of dried leaves per
day. It can be prepared as a soft or liquid extract and used in drops, 10-40 drops per dose.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “4. How to use and dosage of Artichoke”
},
{
“question”: “Are there any studies that have proven the effects of Artichoke in protecting the
liver, aiding digestion, and preventing other diseases?”,
,→
“answer”: “Many studies have proven that Artichoke helps protect the liver, increase bile
secretion, aid digestion, and prevent diseases such as cardiovascular disease and cancer.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Studies on the effects of Artichoke”
},
{
“question”: “Can Artichoke be used to support cancer treatment and reduce the risk of disease?
What is its mechanism of action?”,
,→
“answer”: “Artichoke contains antioxidants that may help prevent cell damage and genetic
mutations leading to cancer, thereby potentially reducing the risk of disease.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Studies on the effects of Artichoke”
},
{
“question”: “In traditional medicine, are there specific recommendations on how to use and
combine Artichoke with other foods to optimize its effects?”,
,→
“answer”: “To optimize the effects of Artichoke, it should be combined with a balanced, healthy
diet and can be used alongside fiber-rich foods to support digestion.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Uses of Artichoke”
},
{
“question”: “What side effects might occur when using Artichoke for long-term treatment? How
can these side effects be managed?”,
,→
“answer”: “Artichoke is non-toxic, but if side effects occur, monitor health and consult a doctor
to adjust the dosage or discontinue use.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “4. How to use and dosage of Artichoke”
}
]
Figure 9: Sample output of the Answer Generation step for the Entire Content (translated to English).


[
{
“question”: “Tôi muốn hỏi vềphương pháp truyền thống dùng dược liệu đểđiều trịbệnh sổmũi
và say nắng, bạn có thểchia sẻthông tin vềđiều này không?” (“I would like to ask about
traditional methods using medicinal herbs to treat a runny nose and heatstroke; can you
share information about this?”),
,→
,→
,→
“answer”: “Đểđiều trịbệnh sổmũi và say nắng, bạn có thểsửdụng 12g thân cây Bướm bạc, 3g
Bạc hà, và 10g lá Ngũ trảo. Rửa sạch và đểráo nước, sau đó đun sôi cùng với nước để
dùng thay thếcho nước trà hằng ngày.” (“To treat a runny nose and heatstroke, you can
use 12g of Butterfly tree stem, 3g of Mint, and 10g of Vitex leaves. Clean and drain, then
boil with water to use as a daily tea substitute.”),
,→
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một sốbài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some empirical remedies”)
},
{
“question”: “Có bài thuốc dân gian nào được sửdụng trong y học cổtruyền đểchữa bệnh ho, sốt
và sưng amidan không?” (“Is there a folk remedy used in traditional medicine to treat
cough, fever, and tonsillitis?”),
,→
,→
“answer”: “Có, đểchữa bệnh ho, sốt và sưng amidan, bạn có thểsửdụng 30g rễcây Bướm bạc,
10g rễBọmẩy và 20g Huyền sâm. Rửa sạch các vịthuốc, sau đó sắc với một lượng nước
phù hợp và sửdụng.” (“Yes, to treat cough, fever, and tonsillitis, you can use 30g of
Butterfly tree root, 10g of Mẩy root, and 20g of Scrophularia root. Clean the herbs, then
decoct with an appropriate amount of water and use.”),
,→
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một sốbài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some empirical remedies”)
},
{
“question”: “Xin bác sĩ tư vấn vềviệc sửdụng dược liệu từcây Bướm bạc đểđiều trịviêm thận,
phù và giúp lợi tiểu.” (“Please advise on using medicinal herbs from the Butterfly tree to
treat nephritis, edema, and help with diuresis.”),
,→
,→
“answer”: “Đểđiều trịviêm thận, phù và giúp lợi tiểu, bạn có thểsửdụng 30g thân Bướm bạc
kết hợp với 60g Kim ngân hoa và 30g Mã đề, sắc nước uống.” (“To treat nephritis, edema,
and help with diuresis, you can use 30g of Butterfly tree stem combined with 60g of
Honeysuckle flower and 30g of Plantain, and decoct for drinking.”),
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một sốbài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some empirical remedies”)
},
{
“question”: “Tôi đang quan tâm đến bài thuốc truyền thống dành cho bệnh khí hư bạch đới, bạn
có thểchia sẻthông tin chi tiết vềcách sửdụng không?” (“I am interested in a traditional
remedy for leucorrhea, can you share detailed information on how to use it?”),
,→
,→
“answer”: “Đểchữa bệnh khí hư bạch đới, bạn cần 10 đến 20g rễBướm bạc. Rửa sạch, sắc kỹvới
nước lọc một lượng phù hợp và sửdụng mỗi ngày.” (“To treat leucorrhea, you need 10 to
20g of Butterfly tree root. Clean it thoroughly, decoct with a suitable amount of filtered
water, and use daily.”),
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một sốbài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some empirical remedies”)
},
{
“question”: “Bác sĩ có thểgiới thiệu vềcách sửdụng dược liệu từlá cây Mướp và lá cây Bướm
bạc đểchữa lởloét da không?” (“Can you introduce how to use medicinal herbs from
Loofah leaves and Butterfly tree leaves to treat skin ulcers?”),
,→
,→
“answer”: “Đểchữa lởloét da, bạn cần dùng lá cây Mướp tươi và lá cây Bướm bạc tươi với liều
lượng bằng nhau. Rửa sạch, đểráo rồi giã nát ra đắp bã vào các vùng lởloét da, cốđịnh
lại và sau đó rửa lại với nước sạch.” (“To treat skin ulcers, you need fresh Loofah leaves
and fresh Butterfly tree leaves in equal amounts. Clean them, drain, then crush and apply
the paste to the ulcerated areas, secure it, and then wash with clean water.”),
,→
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một sốbài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some empirical remedies”)
}
]
Figure 10: Sample output of the Answer Generation step for the Herbal Prescriptions Content.
