PriMera Scientific
Medicine and Public Health 
Volume 3 Issue 6 December 2023 
DOI: 10.56831/PSMPH-03-106
ISSN: 2833-5627 
PriMera Scientific Medicine and Public Health                                                                                                                                    https://primerascientific.com/psmph
Traditional Medicine in Vietnam
Copyright:
© 2023 Lakshmi Balasunda-
ram., et al. This is an open-ac-
cess article distributed under 
the Creative Commons Attri-
bution License, which permits 
unrestricted use, distribution, 
and reproduction in any medi-
um, provided the original work 
is properly cited.
Citation:
Lakshmi Balasundaram., et 
al. “Traditional Medicine in 
Vietnam". PriMera Scientific 
Medicine and Public Health 3.6 
(2023): 28-31.
Type: Short Communication
Received: November 19, 2023
Published: November 28, 2023
Naufal Aldila Tefara and Lakshmi Balasundaram* 
The British International School, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates 
*Corresponding Author: Lakshmi Balasundaram, The British International School, Abu Dhabi, 
United Arab Emirates.
Introduction
    Traditional medicine (TM)/folk medicine (FM) has had a profound impact in Vietnam, with it be-
ing a mainstream medical practice, though which has been slowing phasing out, in the country and 
TM/FM coexisting with modern western medicine. Within Traditional medicinal practices in Viet-
nam, there are two kinds of Traditional medicine - Thuốc Nam i.e., Southern Herbology/medicine 
and Thuốc Bắc, i.e., Northern Herbology/medicine. The former is indigenous Vietnamese traditional 
medicine which developed from Vietnamese folk knowledge, whilst the latter is traditional Chinese 
medicine introduced from centuries of medical exchanges between various Chinese and Vietnamese 
dynasties. (Adorisio S, et al., 2016) This will cover both practices as one.
Current usage
     Traditional Vietnamese Medicine (TVM), in the modern age, is a mainstream practice within mod-
ern Vietnamese medicinal practice, with pharmacology programs by many Vietnamese Universities 
and colleges offering traditional medicine and pharmacognosy as one of the 5 optional specialization 
fields suggested by the Ministry of Education and Training (Vo, Thi-Ha, et. Al, 2013).
    Outside of Vietnam, TVM is still practiced by a significant minority of overseas Vietnamese com-
munity and diaspora in many countries e.g., in a 2016 study on Vietnamese outpatients in Boston, 
Massachusetts, 68% reported using Traditional Vietnamese Medicine, with most being old and more 
than half being female and immigrants/residents (living for < 13 years) (Nguyen, Long T., et al., 2016).
Herbs and traditional cure methods 
Herbs
     Like most Traditional medicine, herbology is an integral part of TVM. Table 1 below shows several 
herbs (specific parts) used, active ingredients, and its treatments in TVM.
   Non herbology-based traditional medicine also exists in TVM, with an example being frog skin. 
Frog skin is used in TVM as a biological dressing and as a means of encouragement of wound-healing 
(Mashreghi, Mohammad, et al., 2013). Within TVM, there are also many practices and methods to 
treat an individual such as - “Wind scraping (Cạo gió)”, “Cupping (Giác hơi)”, and “bloodletting (Cắt 
llể)” (Nguyen LT et al., 2016).


PriMera Scientific Medicine and Public Health                                                                                                                                    https://primerascientific.com/psmph
Traditional Medicine in Vietnam
29
Herb
Part(s) of the 
plant used
Active ingredient(s)
Traditional medicine 
treatment in TVM
Stephania rotunda Lour. 
(Menispermaceae) (Chi Bình 
vôi) [2]
Stems, leaves, 
tubers
Cepharanthine (alkaloids), xylopinine 
(protoberberine alkaloids), cepha-
ramine (Hasubanan alkaloids) 
Asthma, headaches, fever, 
diarrhoea.
Paederia foetida (Skunk / 
stinkvine) (Mơ tròn) [14]
Roots, leaves, 
barks, fruits
Iridoids, flavonoids, volatile oil
Inflammation, haemor-
rhoid piles, diarrhea
Pseuderanthemum palatife-
rum (Hoàn ngọc trắng) [12]
Leaves
Lignins Epifriedelanol, lupeol, luper-
none, botulin, pomolic acid (triter-
penes) Asperglaucide (Dipeptide)
Inflammatory diseases
Crinium latifolium (Trinh nữ 
hoàng cung) [7]
Leaves  
(extracts)
Flavonoids, Alkaloids (non-specified)
Anti-Cancer (Prostate 
cancer and lymphoma) and 
antiviral activity
Gynostemma pentaphyllum 
(Giảo cổ lam) [4]
Leaves, stems
Flavonoids (non-specified), Saponin
Anti-diabetic activity
Aconitum genus (Chi Ô đầu) 
[11]
Leaves, root, 
tubers
Alkaloids, Flavonoids, Free fatty ac-
ids, polysaccharides (non-specified)
Rheumatic fever, joint pain, 
endocrinal disorders
Table 1: Herbs in TVM and their traditional medicine treatment.
Wind scraping (Cạo gió)”
     This is also prevalent Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and is the practice of rubbing one’s skin with oils before scraping it with 
the side of a coin, a spoon, or the top side of the thumb’s/index finger’s nail. It is performed on the back for general malaise, back pain, 
and/or stomach pain, it is done in the chest in a wheel-spoke pattern for cough or chest pain, and for nausea, it is done at the jugular 
notch, sternum and/or the fossa above and below the clavicles. The method leaves patients with ecchymosis/red hematoma streaks 
which can last up to 10 days [10].
    Its use as a legitimate way to remedy headaches, throat problems, and nausea are questionable at best and are not backed up by 
scientific and clinical evidence, as it damages skin, leading to, at best, dermatitis, burns, and haematuria, and at its most damaging, 
severe injuries that require skin grafts to heal [2].
“Cupping (Giác hơi)”
     This is the practice that involves the use of partially vacuumed glass cups/large bamboo tubes on skin to remove “bad wind” from 
the body. This is done by creating vacuums inside the cup/tube before applying them to the affected area, leaving it for 5-10 minutes 
before being snapped off the area. It is meant to “suck out” bad wind (a belief also prevalent in Traditional Chinese Medicine) [10].
    Despite some research on cupping, evidence of the effectiveness of cupping as a technique is disputed and not very strong. Scars, 
burns, infections, and worsening of conditions e.g., eczema, psoriasis, etc. are common side effects. Infections are also a high possi-
bility due to the same equipment being used on different patients and can lead to the spread of bloodborne diseases e.g., hepatitis B, 
hepatitis C [10].
“Bloodletting (Cắt llể)”
     This is the practice of making ~2-5mm long cuts on one’s skin with a shard of glass or razor blade and removing a few drops of blood 
from them through squeezing the areas of incision. To speed up/extra more blood in the process, boiled, hot bamboo tubes/vacuumed 
glass cups were put over the incisions. Bloodletting has no evidence which backs up medical use and leaves one with permanent scars 


PriMera Scientific Medicine and Public Health                                                                                                                                    https://primerascientific.com/psmph
Traditional Medicine in Vietnam
30
and sometimes even serious infections [10].
Impact on modern allopathy
     The efficacy and efficiency of TVM is mostly not based on evidence, as suggested by the overview of a few of the practices and meth-
ods employed in TVM, which causes more harm than good. However, the Vietnamese government have supported the advancement 
of Scientific development in Traditional Vietnamese Medicine (Woerdenbag, HJ, et al., 2012), with the Vietnamese health care system 
in order to promote the scientific validation of TVM and its practices (Eriksson, L., et al., 2014). Below are several studies which have 
validated components of TVM and its proven and potential impact on modern allopathy.
    In a study by Desgrouas, C, et al., (2014) (Desgrouas C et al., 2014), the tubers of Stephania rotunda contain tubers that contain 
alkaloids such as Cepharanthine and Xylopinine, which have links to the allopathic effects it has on ailments such as asthma, head-
ache, fever, and diarrhea. Other phytochemicals have anti-plasmodial, anti-cancer, and immunomodulatory effects, with the alkaloids 
Sinomenine, Cepharanthine, and I-stepholidine having the most promising effects when tested in humans. This means that Stephania 
rotunda, specifically its alkaloids such as those listed above, could treat cancer. Alkaloids in general have anti-cancer effects, with 
studies proving such effects, the mechanics of which involve modulating key signalling pathways which involved in cancer cell prolif-
eration, cancer cell cycle, and cancer cell metastasis. (Desgrouas C et al., 2014).
    Pseuderanthemum palatiferum have shown to have antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties through a study which macro-
phages treated with P. palatiferum showed decreased oxidative stress and reduced iNOS (inducible Nitric Oxide Synthase) and COX-2 
protein levels. Isolated from the plant’s roots, lignin, botulin, and lupeol show cytotoxic and antimicrobial activities. (Mai H et al., 2011) 
Other than this, in a study by Padee et al., (2010), extracts from the leaves of P. palatiferum samples showed a beneficial effect in hyper-
glycaemic rats and prevented certain complications for the diabetic rats. This means that P. palatiferum has a potential anti-diabetic 
effect on humans. (P. Padee et al., 2010).
     Several studies have shown Gynostemma pentaphyllum have an anti-diabetic effect, backing up the use they have on TVM. In a study 
by Hoa, NK, et al., (2009), extracts from G. pentaphyllum extracts have shown a reduction in blood glucose and inhibited the increase 
of glucose after a glucose challenge in healthy mice. (Hoa NK et al., 2009) G. pentaphyllum induced an improvement of glycemia and 
insulin sensitivity of drug-naïve type-2 diabetes patients, a study by Huyen, V.T., (2010) finds. (Huyen V.T. et al., 2010) In another study 
by Huyen, V.T., (2013), Giao co lam tea, a traditional Vietnamese herbal tea made from G. pentaphyllum, has shown to improve insulin 
sensitivity in drug-naïve type 2 diabetes patients, showing that the traditional application of G. pentaphyllum has been shown to help 
with modern allopathy. (Huyen V.T. et al., 2013).
    Frog skin, a non-herbal Traditional Vietnamese Medicine, according to Mashreghi, M, et al., (2013), has shown a significant effec-
tiveness in promoting the wound-healing process. Skin secretions extracted from the species Rana ridibunda were found to be signifi-
cantly effective in the promotion of the wound-healing process. When treated, it promises good potential for its clinical application in 
wound care. (Mashreghi M et al., 2013).
References
1.	 Adorisio S., et al. “Integration of traditional and Western medicine in Vietnamese populations: A review of Health Perceptions 
and therapies”. Natural Product Communications 11.9 (2016).
2.	 Cupping [Internet]. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
3.	 Desgrouas C., et al. “Ethnobotany, Phytochemistry and pharmacology of Stephania Rotunda Lour”. Journal of Ethnopharmacology 
154.3 (2014): 537-63. 
4.	 Habli Z., et al. “Emerging cytotoxic alkaloids in the battle against cancer: Overview of Molecular Mechanisms”. Molecules 22.2 
(2017): 250.
5.	 Hoa NK., et al. “Screening of the hypoglycemic effect of eight Vietnamese herbal drugs”. Methods and Findings in Experimental 


PriMera Scientific Medicine and Public Health                                                                                                                                    https://primerascientific.com/psmph
Traditional Medicine in Vietnam
31
and Clinical Pharmacology 31.3 (2009): 165-9. 
6.	 Huyen VT., et al. “Gynostemma pentaphyllum tea improves insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetic patients”. Journal of Nutrition and 
Metabolism (2013): 1-7.
7.	 Huyen VT., et al. “Antidiabetic effects of add-ongynostemma pentaphyllumextract therapy with sulfonylureas in type 2 diabetic 
patients”. Evidence-Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine (2012). 
8.	 JENNY M. “Crinum latifolium leave extracts suppress immune activation cascades in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and 
proliferation of prostate tumor cells”. Scientia Pharmaceutica 79.2 (2011): 323-35.
9.	 Mai H., et al. “Lignans and other constituents from the roots of the Vietnamese medicinal plantpseuderanthemum palatiferum”. 
Planta Medica 77.09 (2011): 951-4.
10.	Mashreghi M., et al. “Topical effects of frog “Rana ridibunda” skin secretions on wound healing and reduction of wound microbial 
load”. Journal of Ethnopharmacology 145.3 (2013): 793-7.
11.	Nguyen LT., et al. “The use of traditional Vietnamese medicine among Vietnamese immigrants attending an Urban Community 
Health Center in the United States”. The Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine 22.2 (2016): 145-53.
12.	Nyirimigabo E., et al. “A review on Phytochemistry, pharmacology and toxicology studies of aconitum”. Journal of Pharmacy and 
Pharmacology 67.1 (2014): 1-19.
13.	Padee P., et al. “Hypoglycemic effect of a leaf extract of Pseuderanthemum palatiferum (NEES) radlk. in normal and streptozoto-
cin-induced diabetic rats”. Journal of Ethnopharmacology 132.2 (2010): 491-6.
14.	Vo T-H., et al. “Pharmacy Education in Vietnam”. U.S. National Library of Medicine (2013).
15.	Wang L., et al. “A phytochemical, pharmacological and clinical profile of paederia foetida and P. scandens”. Natural Product Com-
munications 9.6 (2014): 879-86.
