RESEARCH
Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10916-024-02139-y
	
 Alessio Bottrighi
alessio.bottrighi@uniupo.it
Federica Grosso
federica.grosso@ospedale.al.it
Marco Ghiglione
mghiglione@ospedale.al.it
Antonio Maconi
amaconi@ospedale.al.it
Stefano Nera
stefano.nera@uniupo.it
Luca Piovesan
luca.piovesan@uniupo.it
Erica Raina
erica.raina@uniupo.it
Annalisa Roveta
aroveta@ospedale.al.it
Paolo Terenziani
paolo.terenziani@uniupo.it
1	
Computer Science Institute, DISIT, University of Eastern 
Piedmont, Alessandria, Italy
2	
Integrated Laboratory of AI and Medical Informatics, DAIRI 
– SS. Antonio e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo Hospital, DISIT – 
University of Eastern Piedmont, Alessandria, Italy
3	
Mesothelioma, Melanoma and Rare Cancers Unit, Azienda 
Ospedaliera “SS Antonio e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo”, 
Alessandria, Italy
4	
Skin Cancer Unit, Azienda Ospedaliera “SS Antonio e Biagio 
e Cesare Arrigo”, Alessandria, Italy
5	
Research Innovation Department, Research Training 
Innovation Infrastructure Azienda Ospedaliera “SS. Antonio 
e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo”, Alessandria, Italy
Abstract
In traditional medical education, learners are mostly trained to diagnose and treat patients through supervised practice. 
Artificial Intelligence and simulation techniques can complement such an educational practice. In this paper, we present 
GLARE-Edu, an innovative system in which AI knowledge-based methodologies and simulation are exploited to train 
learners “how to act” on patients based on the evidence-based best practices provided by clinical practice guidelines. 
GLARE-Edu is being developed by a multi-disciplinary team involving physicians and AI experts, within the AI-LEAP 
(LEArning Personalization of AI and with AI) Italian project. GLARE-Edu is domain-independent: it supports the acqui­
sition of clinical guidelines and case studies in a computer format. Based on acquired guidelines (and case studies), it 
provides a series of educational facilities: (i) navigation, to navigate the structured representation of the guidelines pro­
vided by GLARE-Edu, (ii) automated simulation, to show learners how a guideline would suggest to act, step-by-step, 
on a specific case, and (iii) (self)verification, asking learners how they would treat a case, and comparing step-by-step 
the learner’s proposal with the suggestions of the proper guideline. In this paper, we describe GLARE-Edu architecture 
and general features, and we demonstrate our approach through a concrete application to the melanoma guideline and we 
propose a preliminary evaluation.
Keywords  Educational knowledge-based AI system · Computer-interpretable clinical guidelines · Knowledge 
representation · Medical training and assessment · Clinical guideline simulation
Received: 3 July 2024 / Accepted: 28 December 2024
© The Author(s) 2024
A Symbolic AI Approach to Medical Training
Alessio Bottrighi1,2
 · Federica Grosso3
 · Marco Ghiglione4 · Antonio Maconi5
 · Stefano Nera1,2
 · 
Luca Piovesan1,2
 · Erica Raina1,2
 · Annalisa Roveta2,5
 · Paolo Terenziani1,2
1 3


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
Introduction
Traditional medical texts and courses cover a wide range of 
knowledge, ranging from human anatomy to the descrip­
tion of diseases, and their diagnosis and treatment. How­
ever, “operational” problems such as “how to act on a 
specific patient?”, “How to diagnose and treat a patient 
by applying the best medical procedures?” are fundamen­
tal in medical education, thus deserving specific attention 
and dedicated methodologies and tools. As a matter of 
fact, the knowledge about the “best” evidence-based clini­
cal procedures to diagnose and treat patients affected by a 
specific disease is widely available, textually encoded into 
clinical practice guidelines (CPGs). CPGs are “systemati­
cally developed statements to assist practitioner and patient 
decisions about appropriate healthcare under specific 
clinical circumstances” [1]. CPGs are widely promoted by 
national and international healthcare agencies, to introduce 
evidence-based medicine and support the quality and stan­
dardization of healthcare services. Thousands of textual 
CPGs are currently available (e.g., the Guideline Interna­
tional Network [2] provides more than 6500 CPGs). How­
ever, many CPGs are encoded in textual form as books of 
several hundred pages. Thus, it is very difficult to learn them 
and to select from them exactly the recommendation suit­
able to cope with a specific patient. For instance, a recent 
need-assessment of CPGs in medical education carried on 
by the Guideline International Network working group 
about medical education pointed out that the majority of 
medical students encounter guidelines for the first time in 
their clinical years, and are often unable to effectively use 
CPGs typically due to a lack of education. A main critical 
issue pointed out by such an analysis is the need of supports 
for education on the proper use of CPGs [3]. Computer-
based approaches can play a relevant role in this context: 
“The literature reveals that Clinical Informatics training in 
the core curricula will complement if not enhance clinical 
skills”, so that “future research needs to comprehensively 
address current gaps in Clinical Informatics training in dif­
ferent contexts” [4]. However, a recent analysis has shown 
that, though learners showed higher satisfaction with digital 
education compared to traditional learning, the impact of 
current educational digital techniques in the context of CPG 
is still quite limited [5]. Notably, in the area of CPGs, since 
the 1980s, the AI in Medicine (AIM) community has started 
to design domain-independent systems to acquire CPGs 
in a computer-interpretable format, and to support their 
execution on specific patients (see, e.g., the surveys [6–8]). 
GLARE (Guideline Acquisition Representation and Execu­
tion) is one of such systems, which we have been develop­
ing and adopting since 1996 [9]. However, such systems are 
mainly devoted to the decision support task, while only few 
CPG-based AIM approaches have started to investigate the 
educational task (see Sect. 5). In this paper, starting from 
our long-term GLARE experience, we propose a new sys­
tem, GLARE-Edu, specifically devoted to medical educa­
tion. GLARE-Edu is domain-independent: it is not devoted 
to a specific CPG, but supports the acquisition and use of 
different CPGs. Since CPGs are collections of well-defined 
and quite structured explicit knowledge, GLARE-Edu is 
characterized by the development/adoption of symbolic AI 
techniques (e.g., knowledge representation, planning, logic-
based reasoning, temporal reasoning) to represent and 
operate on it (as opposed to Machine Learning techniques, 
suitable when large amounts of data are available)1.
GLARE-Edu provides a tool to support medical experts 
in the acquisition of CPGs in a computer format, henceforth 
called Computer-Interpretable Guidelines (CIG). An addi­
tional tool supports the acquisition of (virtual) case stud­
ies, intended as the computer-interpretable description of 
the evolution of the patients’ clinical parameters/data. The 
core of GLARE-Edu consists of the navigation, automated 
simulation, and verification tools, using the acquired CPGs 
and case studies to address different aspects/competencies 
of medical education.
We are developing GLARE-Edu within a two-year proj­
ect, AI-LEAP (LEArning Personalization of AI and with AI) 
[11], in a multi-disciplinary team including members from 
our University and from the hospital SS. Antonio, Biagio 
e Cesare Arrigo in Alessandria. In this paper, we describe 
the results of the first year of the project. In Sect. “GLARE-
Edu: background, underlying philosophy, educational 
impact” we highlight the background, the underlying phi­
losophy, and the educational impact of GLARE-Edu. In 
Sect.  “GLARE-Edu: architecture and main features” we 
show the overall architecture of GLARE-Edu, and discuss 
its components. In Sect. “Evaluation of GLARE-Edu’s Edu­
cational Approach”, we sketch a preliminary evaluation of 
our approach and the evaluation plan provided in the AI-
LEAP project. Section  “Related work” discusses related 
work, and Sect. “Conclusions and future works” presents 
conclusions and future work.
1   In artificial intelligence, symbolic artificial intelligence (also 
known as classical artificial intelligence or logic-based artificial 
intelligence) is the term for the collection of all methods in artificial 
intelligence research that are based on high-level symbolic (human-
readable) representations of problems, logic and search [10].
1 3
    2 
 
Page 2 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
GLARE-Edu: Background, Underlying 
Philosophy, Educational Impact
In this section, we motivate the need for educational CIG 
systems like GLARE-Edu (with respect to existent CIG sys­
tems for decision support; subsection “CIG-based clinical 
decision support systems vs. educational systems”), present 
GLARE-Edu underlying principles (subsection “GLARE-
Edu underlying philosophy”), and discuss the main tasks of 
GLARE-Edu and its educational impact (subsection “Tasks 
and educational impact”).
CIG-Based Clinical Decision Support Systems vs. 
Educational Systems
As already mentioned in the introduction, given the role of 
CPGs in medical practice, many different domain-indepen­
dent decision support systems have been built to acquire 
CPGs in computer format (i.e., into a CIG) and to support 
physicians in their application to patients (see, e.g., the sur­
veys [6–8]). Since CPGs consist of large bodies of well-
defined and quite structured knowledge, and physicians 
appreciate an explicit representation and management of 
such a knowledge, such systems are characterized by the 
adoption of advanced symbolic AI methodologies (e.g., in 
GLARE: knowledge representation, ontological reasoning, 
temporal reasoning, decision theory, model-based verifica­
tion, conformance evaluation) to acquire and represent it, 
and to provide user-physicians with different forms of sup­
port [12, 13].
(B1)	
CIG Decision Support Systems Behavior: In 
short, once a CIG is acquired, such systems take as 
input it and the clinical record of a patient (managed 
by an external DBMS), and, step-by-step, automatically 
determine the next actions or decisions to be taken for 
the patient, according to the CIG. Step-by-step, actions 
and decisions are suggested to the physician, who 
decides whether accepting and applying them to the 
patient or not.
Though some of such systems have also been used for edu­
cational purposes, their behavior is geared towards to deci­
sions support. In GLARE-Edu, we support (besides other 
facilities) two main behaviors (different from the above).
CIG Educational System (GLARE-Edu) Behaviors
First of all, for education, a system cannot connect with 
DBMS managing clinical records, but has to acquire a-pri­
ori also case studies (besides CIGs). Given a CIG and a case 
study for it, GLARE-Edu provides (B2) and (B3).
(B2)	
GLARE-Edu’s Automated Simulation. Step-by-
step, GLARE-Edu automatically determines the next 
actions or decisions to be taken to manage the case 
study, according to the CIG. Actions and decisions are 
shown step-by-step to the learner, to demonstrate how 
the CIG recommends to manage the case study (nota­
bly, differently from (B1), in automated simulation, the 
system “leads”, and the user cannot make choices).
(B3)	
GLARE-Edu’s 
Verification. 
Step-by-step, 
GLARE-Edu lets the learner propose how he or she 
would act on the case study, and automatically checks 
whether his or her proposal is consistent with what the 
CIG would have recommended to do, providing expla­
nations in the case of differences (notably, such a behav­
ior is completely different from (B1), and GLARE-Edu 
is the first CIG system in the literature providing it).
GLARE-Edu Underlying Philosophy
GLARE-Edu grounds on the 25-year work of (part of) the 
team about GLARE, a CIG system devoted to decision sup­
port [9]. GLARE-Edu builds on top of GLARE, moving the 
attention from decision support to education, but maintain­
ing its basic underlying principles, i.e., being.
	
●
Domain-independent: in GLARE, we have acquired 
and managed many different CPGs, including asthma, 
ischemic stroke, alcohol-related diseases, gastro-esoph­
ageal disease, polytrauma.
	
●
User-friendly: GLARE’s (and GLARE-Edu’s) rep­
resentation formalism and its facilities have been de­
signed and tested by a multidisciplinary team including 
physicians.
	
●
A support system: GLARE (and GLARE-Edu’s) is in­
tended to help users, and not to substitute them.
In particular, GLARE-Edu basically adopts the same repre­
sentation formalism used by GLARE, so that it takes advan­
tage of GLARE’s acquisition (see Sect. 3.3) and navigation 
(see Sect. 3.5) tools, and has been designed in cooperation 
with physicians that are involved also in its educational use 
(consider, e.g., the experimental evaluation described in 
Sect. 4).
Tasks and Educational Impact
To clarify the goals and educational impact of GLARE-
Edu, it is important to clarify that it supports two different 
modalities of use:
	
●
Supervised use, in which lessons are held by medical 
experts, who adopt GLARE-Edu navigation, automated 
1 3
Page 3 of 15 
    2 


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
Task 2: Learning How a CPG Recommends to Manage a Case 
Study
In traditional education, given a (hundred-pages) CPG, a 
teacher is left alone to show learners which parts of it are 
relevant to the management of each specific case study, 
and, in their autonomous study, learners have no support to 
understand which CPG recommendations applies to specific 
case studies. GLARE-Edu’s automated simulation facility 
performs inferences on the knowledge representation in 
order to automatically “adapt” the “conceptual map” (i.e., 
the CIG’s representation) to each specific case study, show­
ing the parts relevant for it. This is a fundamental support 
for teachers (in the supervised modality) to show and dis­
cuss how a general CPG applies to a specific case study, and 
by learners (in the non-supervised modality) learn that in a 
facilitated way.
Task 3: Verifying Learner’s Ability to Manage a Case Study 
(with Explanations)
In traditional education, learners’ self-verification is not sup­
ported, and the teacher has no support to define case studies, 
ask learners how they would manage them (given a CPG), 
and evaluating (with respect to CPG’s recommendations) 
and explaining learners’ solutions. GLARE-Edu verifica­
tion facility is an innovative (the first one in the literature, 
considering the CPG context) to support teachers (super­
vised modality) in such a task, and, above all, to support 
learners’ self-verification. We believe that this is a crucial 
advance with respect to the state-of-the-art of CIG systems.
Finally, please notice that, to exemplify GLARE-Edu’s 
behavior and educational impact, we include, as additional 
material, a short demo showing GLARE-Edu “in action” 
[14]2.
2   The demo has been presented at ECAI’24, Doctoral Consortium.
simulation and verification facilities to enrich their les­
sons (see Fig. 1a).
	
●
Non-supervised use, in which the above facilities are 
directly used by learners, to facilitate their learning pro­
cess (see Fig. 1b).
GLARE-Edu supports three main educational tasks. For 
each of them, we discuss GLARE-Edu’s educational impact, 
considering both its supervised and non-supervised use, and 
comparing it with “traditional” learning (i.e., learning with­
out an AI system support).
Task 1: Learning a CPG “per se”
The first step for learners is obviously to learn the content 
of a general CPG, independently of its application to spe­
cific case studies. Notably, a CPG is usually a quite “flat” 
text of hundreds of pages, and, in “traditional” learning, the 
teacher is left alone to organize its presentation to learners, 
while learners have to study such “flat” text with the only 
support of teacher’s explanations (and possibly, teacher-
provided additional material). GLARE-Edu provides a nav­
igation facility to support them. Notably, a CIG (i.e., the 
computer version of a CPG, as acquired by GLARE-Edu) 
can be roughly assimilated to a “conceptual map” of the 
knowledge expressed in the textual CPG (see, e.g., Fig. 3 
in the following), organized at different levels of detail (see 
the description of GLARE-Edu formalism in Sect.  3.2). 
GLARE-Edu’s navigation facility supports the “explora­
tion” of such a conceptual map at different levels of detail 
(top-down refinement methodology), and can be exploited 
by teachers (in the supervised modality) as a support to 
show and discuss the content of a CPG is a structured and 
well-organized way, and by students (in the non-supervised 
modality) to access it in the same way.
Fig. 1  Examples of the two 
different modalities of use of 
GLARE-Edu: supervised (a) and 
non-supervised (b)
 
1 3
    2 
 
Page 4 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
[15], structured in GLARE-Edu during the project’s first 
year, offering learners a structured CPG knowledge approach 
beyond flat textual recommendations.
CIG Acquisition Tool
GLARE-Edu utilizes GLARE’s acquisition tool, initially 
detailed in [9].
Technical Aspects
In addition to a user-friendly interface for creating the hier­
archical CPG graph (see Fig. 3) and entering node descrip­
tions, the tool interacts with a medical ontology (in our 
implementation, SNOMED CT [16]) to standardize ter­
minology. It also uses advanced symbolic AI techniques, 
like temporal reasoning, to ensure the consistency of the 
acquired graph [17].
Case Study Acquisition Tool
To apply CIGs to practical cases, we need case studies in 
digital format. Our goal is to teach learners which actions to 
take for specific cases, not how to perform them. Therefore, 
virtual reality representation is unnecessary and patients are 
represented by data tracking clinical status changes.
Technical Aspects
Case study creation is a key distinction of GLARE-Edu 
from GLARE. In GLARE, patient data are managed by an 
external DBMS, with entries added as new findings appear. 
Conversely, GLARE-Edu requires “a priori” complete case 
studies to support simulations (Sect. 3.6 and 3.7). Our case 
study acquisition tool supports expert physicians in the 
acquisition: a graphical interface shows them the graph 
modeling the CIG, and supports step-by-step navigation 
along one (in the case of automated simulation) or more 
GLARE-Edu: Architecture and Main Features
In this Section we present the main technical features of 
GLARE-Edu. We first show the general architecture and 
representation formalism, and then we present each one of 
the components of GLARE-Edu’s architecture.
GLARE-Edu Architecture
Figure 2 illustrates GLARE-Edu’s general architecture. We 
describe each component in Sect. 3.3–3.7, first with a high-
level overview, then discussing key technical challenges, 
including adapting GLARE for educational use in GLARE-
Edu. This contribution may benefit others working on CIG 
decision support systems who are interested in educational 
applications (consider, e.g., [6–8]). For clarity and concise­
ness, Fig. 2 omits each component’s refined user interface, 
which we designed and tested in collaboration with physi­
cians from our team, some of whom also serve as teachers 
in our experimental evaluations.
CIG Representation Formalism
In GLARE-Edu (as in GLARE), a CPG is represented 
as a hierarchical graph with nodes as actions and arcs as 
control flow, dictating action order. Nodes and arcs come 
with descriptive properties. GLARE differentiates between 
atomic and composite actions. Composite actions, shown 
as red octagonal nodes (e.g., “Assessment” in Fig. 3), are 
sub-graphs, aiding hierarchical CPG formalization. Atomic 
actions represent basic CPG steps, categorized into four 
types: Work actions (blue circles, e.g., “Excision of sen­
tinel lymph node”), Data requests (green parallelograms, 
e.g., “Report for staging TNM”), Decision actions (yel­
low diamonds, e.g., “Locoregional staging”), and Conclu­
sions (modeling the output of decisions; orange triangles, 
e.g., “TIS”). Figure 3 shows the Italian CPG for melanoma 
(released by the Associazione Italiana Oncologia Medica) 
Fig. 2  Architecture of 
GLARE-Edu
 
1 3
Page 5 of 15 
    2 


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
CIG Automated Simulation Tool
The automated simulation tool uses a CIG and a case study 
to show, step-by-step, how the CIG would guide actions 
for the case. Users don’t make choices during this process. 
For data requests, the tool displays required clinical data, 
and for decisions, it highlights the correct choice based on 
criteria and case data (pulled automatically from the stored 
case). Figure 5 shows a simulation: grey bullets mark com­
pleted actions (e.g., from “Assessment” to “Report for stag­
ing TNM”), and a red bullet marks the current action (e.g., 
“Evaluation of N”), with a pop-up showing action details 
like, in the example, the decision tree modelling the deci­
sion and the correct evaluation in it.
Technical Aspects
Automated simulation uses GLARE’s execution mod­
ule, advancing step-by-step along the CIG path based on 
patient data. Unlike GLARE, where user-physicians can 
override recommendations, GLARE-Edu only shows CIG 
recommendations, with no option to override. Additionally, 
GLARE-Edu operates on a pre-acquired case study, rather 
than interacting with a DBMS of clinical records.
(for verification) paths of the given CIG, asking the experts 
the data values for the case under examination at each data 
request node.
CIG Navigation Tool
GLARE-Edu provides an interactive tool to navigate the 
hierarchical graph and show the description of nodes. For 
example, Fig.  4 illustrates the graphical interface for the 
navigation of the “Evaluation of N” node. Since it is a deci­
sion node with a restricted decision tree, learners can easily 
understand the parameters involved in making the decision 
and view the structure of the decision tree itself by click­
ing the “Show decision tree” button. The graphical interface 
also provides, for each node, a description and additional 
relevant information that enhances the educational experi­
ence. Specifically, by selecting “Show Details”, learners can 
view the pop-up displayed in Fig. 4, where they have access 
to supplementary media, such as images, videos or files, 
through the corresponding button.
Technical Aspects
GLARE-Edu CIG navigation is a slight variation (due to 
minor differences in the graphical interface) of GLARE’s 
consultation module [9]. Notably, given the hierarchical 
representation of CIGs, the CIG navigation tool supports 
the top-down refinement methodology in learning CPG’s 
contents.
Fig. 3  The top level of melanoma CIG (GLARE-Edu graphical interface)
 
1 3
    2 
 
Page 6 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
Fig. 5  Automated simulation of the melanoma CIG on a case study (GLARE-Edu graphical interface). Notably, the rightmost part of the window 
shows the case study values
 
Fig. 4  Navigation of the melanoma CIG (GLARE-Edu graphical interface)
 
1 3
Page 7 of 15 
    2 


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
(i)	 First (Sect.  4.1) we propose a preliminary evaluation 
we have already run. We have organized a lesson for 
physicians focused on the melanoma CPG and selected 
case studies in collaboration with Alessandria Hospital. 
The results provide valuable insights into the potential 
of our approach;
(ii)	 Second (Sect. 4.2) we detail the plan for our final evalu­
ation: at the end of the AI-LEAP project, we will run two 
six-month courses to further evaluate — one designed 
for medical students and another for physicians.
Preliminary Evaluation
The Alessandria Hospital recruited 20 physicians, for a two-
hour lesson considering the melanoma CPG and selected 
case studies. None of the physicians in the experiment had 
prior specific knowledge about the Italian melanoma guide­
line [15]. We present the results concerning the learning 
phase and the evaluation of GLARE-Edu, since they pro­
vide a hint of the potentialities of GLARE-Edu.
The experiment was conducted by splitting the physi­
cians into two homogeneous classes, one adopting GLARE-
Edu, and the other receiving traditional medical education. 
Both classes had an hour and a half lesson, concerning:
1.	 Specific Parts of the guideline, including the N staging 
decision.
2.	 The application of (parts of) the guideline, and of N 
staging, to specific cases.
For the control class, the lesson has been held traditionally, 
while in the class using GLARE-Edu, the facilities described 
in Sect. 3 have been exploited. Finally, both classes spent 
the last 30  min to completing evaluation questionnaires 
implemented through Google Forms.
We asked the physicians a series of questions, regarding 
different case studies, asking (i) which (guideline) activities 
should be performed, (ii) which data should be considered, 
and (iii) N-staging decisions. For each question, different 
CIG Verification Tool
Given a case study, GLARE-Edu lets learners practice 
applying a CIG, verifying each step against the CIG’s rec­
ommendations and offering explanations for discrepancies. 
For example:
	
●
For data requests, GLARE-Edu asks the learner to 
specify the required data and checks it against the CIG’s 
data requirements;
	
●
For clinical decisions, GLARE-Edu presents the case 
status and possible outcomes, asking the learner to 
choose. This answer is compared to the CIG’s decision 
outcome; if incorrect, an explanation is provided.
Figure 6 illustrates an “Evaluation of N” decision example, 
where the learner’s choice of N3a differs from the correct 
answer, N2a, and the decision tree shows why. The green 
nodes represent the tree nodes visited considering the data 
of the case study, which lead to the correct answer. The leaf 
corresponding to the learner’s answer is colored in red.
Technical Aspects
This verification facility is unique to GLARE-Edu. It bal­
ances giving learners freedom to make decisions with the 
complexity of pre-defining case studies and automatically 
explaining differences from CIG recommendations. Learn­
ers progress step-by-step, choosing actions from a menu; 
GLARE’s execution module then compares each choice 
with the CIG’s recommendation, explaining any inconsis­
tencies (e.g., as shown in Fig. 5).
Evaluation of GLARE-Edu’s Educational 
Approach
In this section, we outline the evaluation of our approach in 
two steps:
Fig. 6  The explanation provided 
for the decision tree in action 
“Evaluation of N”, considering 
the data in the case study (shown 
in Fig. 5) and the learner’s 
answer
 
1 3
    2 
 
Page 8 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
established a detailed plan for GLARE-Edu’s evaluation. 
In particular, the final six months of the AI-LEAP project 
will be dedicated to an extensive experimental assessment, 
in which we aim to demonstrate both (i) the generalizability 
and (ii) the potential of GLARE-Edu.
Regarding (i), we are collaborating with Prof. Luigi Cas­
tello, associate professor of internal medicine at the Uni­
versity of Eastern Piedmont and head of Internal Medicine 
Department 1 at Alessandria Hospital, to acquire a CPG 
about dyslipidemia, and many case studies for it.
To demonstrate (ii), we are organizing two courses, each 
one distributed in a six-month period of time (the last six 
months of the AI-LEAP project):
(A)	A course for physicians on Italian melanoma guideline 
[15];
(B)	A course for student in medicine on dyslipidemia based 
on European Society of Cardiology guidelines [18].
We aim to enroll at least 50 students and 20 physicians.
The two courses are organized in a similar way. We will 
split learners into two homogeneous classes: one adopting 
GLARE-Edu and the other (the control group) undergoing 
traditional medical education based on the textual CPGs. 
Both classes will attend in-person lessons led by expert phy­
sicians (in GLARE-Edu class, teachers will take advantage 
of GLARE-Edu), and at-home exercises (the GLARE-Edu 
learners will have the opportunity to adopt the system also 
at home). The abstract schema of lessons is:
	
●
2 lessons on the CPG;
	
●
A first in-itinere evaluation test;
	
●
2 lessons on the CPG;
	
●
A second in-itinere evaluation test;
	
●
2 lessons on the CPG;
	
●
The final evaluation test.
The course for physician (A) will be organized in collabo­
ration with Alessandria Hospital, which is in the regional 
register of accredited providers for education since 2012. It 
will be accredited as Continuous Medical Education (CME) 
course, which are mandatory for maintaining professional 
licenses.
The course for student in medicine (B) will be organized 
in collaboration with our university’s Master Degree in 
Medicine and Surgery as an “Attività didattiche elettive” 
(ADE or elective educational activities). ADE are educa­
tional activities designed to deepen specific knowledge and 
skills, enhancing both preparation and training. They pro­
vide to students (of the fourth and fifth years) opportunities 
to explore topics beyond the core curriculum and promote 
multidisciplinary approaches.
answers were proposed, and the physicians were asked to 
choose one of them. Results are summarized in Table 1.
Together with domain-expert teachers, we have analyzed 
these results and tried to interpret them. The low percentage 
of correct answers is probably due to several factors: (i) the 
complexity of the guideline, (ii) the fact that physicians had 
no specific a-priori knowledge of it, since the management 
of melanoma patients is not carried on by General Practi­
tioners, but by specialists, and (iii) the short time of the les­
son. Notably, the adoption of GLARE-Edu has improved 
the training results, especially regarding the actions to be 
performed on patients, and the decision about N staging. 
The p-value for the comprehensive test is 0.348 (since we 
are in a context of two dichotomous nominal variables and 
small samples we evaluated the p-value through Fisher’s 
exact test). We are fully aware that this is not a statistically 
relevant result, but we strongly believe that the low statisti­
cal significance is mostly due to (i) the limited number of 
physicians (and of questions) and (ii) the very short time we 
could devote to education.
We are confident to achieve better and significant results 
in our future experimental evaluation at the end of the AI-
LEAP project (see Sect. 4.2).
We asked a set of questions exclusively to the GLARE-
Edu classes to evaluate the physicians’ perception of its 
usefulness. Scores ranged from 1 (“minimum”) to 5 (“maxi­
mum”). The average values are shown in Table 2.
Notably, physicians found “medium” (3,33 is basically 
a medium value on a scale of 1–5) the extra effort needed 
to learn GLARE-Edu, and found it useful and “to be 
recommended”.
Evaluation Plan (AI-LEAP Project)
The initial results are promising, but the evaluations con­
ducted are quite limited.
As discussed before, the development of GLARE-Edu is 
within a two-year project, AI-LEAP [11], in which we have 
Table 1  Percentage of correct answers
Activities
Required data
N staging
Traditional
41%
77%
12.5%
GLARE-Edu
51%
81%
22%
Table 2  A general evaluation of GLARE-Edu. Scores are numeric val­
ues (1,2,3,4,5), where 1 stands for “minimum” and 5 for “maximum”
Aver­
age 
score
Complexity of training about GLARE-Edu representation 
and use
3.33
Usefulness of GLARE-Edu
4
Would you recommend the use of GLARE-Edu?
4.11
1 3
Page 9 of 15 
    2 


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
virtual patient education improved diagnostic performance 
through deliberate practice [27].
Many of the above approaches also include AI techniques. 
In the area of medical AI, a large number of approaches was 
successfully devoted to medical education. For instance, 
a recent survey [28] identifies many different perspectives 
for educational applications of AI: Intelligent Tutoring Sys­
tems, AI-assisted learner assessment, ChatBot, Personalized 
Learning Platforms, Robot-Assisted Surgery Simulations, 
Enhanced anatomy education, AI tools to prepare applica­
tions, AI-generated art (to enhance visual storytelling for 
patient encounters), machine learning for intra-operative 
video analysis to improve patient care. Several other appli­
cation contexts have been identified in [29, 30], where also 
future perspectives are considered.
Notably, a wide range of applications has emerged 
quite recently, due to the advances of research in the area 
of Machine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) [31, 
32]. In such a field, the rising of explanation techniques has 
made ML and DL techniques more exploitable for educa­
tion [33].
ML and DL have significantly advanced medical edu­
cation across multiple domains, such as image process­
ing [34–36]. Such technologies assist students through 
advanced and interactive 3D models [37], and in recog­
nizing and diagnosing medical images such as X-rays, CT 
scans, and MRIs, providing accurate feedback [38]. These 
systems are instrumental in teaching students how to iden­
tify subtle diagnostic clues.
ML and DL also play a crucial role in enhancing diag­
nostic reasoning. Tools like CaseB-Pro [39] use neural net­
works combined with case-based reasoning to help students 
input patient symptoms and receive diagnostic feedback, 
improving clinical skills through interactive, real-world 
simulations. Virtual patient and digital twin systems offer 
safe environments for students to practice consultations 
and therapeutic procedures, make diagnostic decisions, and 
receive instant feedback [40]. Gamification platforms [41] 
further engage students by adapting learning challenges 
to their skill level, enhancing both clinical reasoning and 
patient interaction.
Moreover, adaptive learning systems and Intelligent 
Tutoring Systems [42] tailor instruction to individual 
learning needs, ensuring targeted and efficient knowledge 
acquisition. AI-based assessments [43] provide objective 
measures of student performance, helping educators iden­
tify areas that need improvement.
In the very last years, generative AI approaches have 
added a new dimension to medical education, by simulat­
ing patient encounters, answering complex medical ques­
tions, and offering personalized feedback in real time [44]. 
Such AI models enhance clinical reasoning, communication 
Notably, both courses need a specific accreditation pro­
cess before the enrollment phase can start3.
Furthermore, the AI-LEAP project mandates that our 
activities during the evaluation phase are conducted under 
the constant supervision of the Bruno Kessler Foundation 
[20], serving as external evaluator.
Related Work
The area of informatics for medical education is wide and 
complex, and many different surveys are reported in the lit­
erature. In the following, we briefly propose a (necessarily 
partial) overview of some of the main methodologies and 
applications, with specific focus on the ones more closely 
related to our approach.
Virtual patients and simulation are certainly one of the 
areas in which Informatics has provided major contribu­
tions. Virtual patients are “interactive computer simulations 
of real-life clinical scenarios for health professions train­
ing, education, or assessment” [21]. Virtual patients differ 
in terms of competencies (e.g., clinical reasoning, patient 
communication skills, procedural and basic clinical skills) 
and technologies (e.g., multimedia system, conversational 
character, virtual world). The predominant class is the inter­
active patient scenario followed by software simulations 
and virtual standardized patients. Other forms of Virtual 
patients are games, case presentations, human standardized 
patients, and high-fidelity manikins [22, 23].
Already in the 1980’s, McDowell et al. evaluated the 
outcomes of simulation methods in nursing education [24]. 
Recent analyses have shown that virtual patient simulation 
improved clinical reasoning abilities of medical students in 
the context of a traditional teaching/learning environment 
[25], AI virtual patient scenarios were well accepted by 
students and demonstrated significant promise as a com­
plementary simulation-based learning modality [26], and 
3   Concerning CME courses, the accreditation process involves a 
set of steps:The course design, based on educational needs and clear 
objectives;The content evaluation, reviewed by a scientific training 
committee, which will work according to the Regional Council of 
December 20, 2019, No. 21–778;The accreditation application and 
evaluation, submitted to the accrediting body (i.e. Piedmont Region).In 
the case of positive final evaluation, the course is accredited and pub­
lished on regional website [19].Moreover, the quality of the CME 
courses is monitored in-itinere through event evaluations and the UNI 
EN ISO 9001:2015 quality system, which guarantees an appropriate 
organizational management system based on ISO policies and related 
procedures.Concerning ADE courses, course proposals must be evalu­
ated by the President and Vice-president of the Degree program based 
on the contents quality, the objectives, the prerequisites required for an 
effective participation. ADE have to be scheduled to avoid any overlap 
with curricular activities. Finally, the course’s progress will be closely 
monitored to ensure it aligns with the original proposal in terms of 
quality and relevance.
1 3
    2 
 
Page 10 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
[5], highlighting the need for novel and more powerful 
approaches. Actually, though the AIM literature proposes 
a quite large number of domain-independent CIG sys­
tems (see, e.g., the surveys [6–8]), such systems have been 
designed to provide decision support to physicians.
Few approaches in CIG literature specifically target 
educational tasks. The first proposal, mentioned in [55], 
suggests using a multipurpose CIG execution engine for edu­
cation, though its architecture is too general to address spe­
cific educational tasks. More recently, AIM tools have been 
developed for training physicians on clinical guidelines. 
For instance, Real et al. [56] used decision tables based on 
guidelines for arterial hypertension to train residents, com­
paring their decisions with those of the tables. Riaño et al. 
[57] describe Shock-Instructor, a web-based tool that helps 
hospital residents learn about shock management through 
a knowledge base and case descriptions. Uribe-Ocampo et 
al. [58] introduced SIM-CIG, a video game for simulating 
antenatal healthcare scenarios and evaluating decision-mak­
ing based on obstetric guidelines. Notably, the approaches 
in [56–58] are devoted to a specific domain. GLARE-Edu is 
the only CIG-based educational system which.
1.	 Is domain independent.
2.	 Provides verification/testing facilities.
Feature (1) grants that, with GLARE-Edu, education con­
cerning different diseases can be homogeneously per­
formed, adopting the same “conceptual map” representation 
and educational facilities. On the other hand, the educational 
impact of feature (2) has been already discussed in Sect. 2 
above. Thus, GLARE-Edu constitutes a step forward in the 
panorama of CIG-based medical education.
The only evaluation of CIG-based educational system is 
reported in [57]. The study in [57] compares the two groups 
of learners (experimental and control) in terms of: (i) guide­
line adherence, (ii) accuracy in dose prescriptions, (iii) sur­
vival rate post-intervention, and (iv) frailty of the surviving 
cases. In light of current research, we can therefore compare 
[57] with our approach solely on aspect (i) (see Sect. 4.1), 
while leaving the other comparisons for future trials (see 
Sect. 4.2). Specifically, [57] reports a statistically significant 
improvement (p-value = 0.01) of 2% in guideline adherence.
Our preliminary experiment, however, indicates a 10% 
improvement in adherence related to activity-based actions, 
a 4% improvement in data requests, and a 9.5% improve­
ment in staging-related decisions (i.e., clinical decisions), 
leading to an average improvement of at least 7–8%, with­
out accounting for the imbalance in the number of actions 
across these types. Although the performance achieved with 
GLARE-Edu cannot be deemed statistically significant due 
to the limited number of learners involved, these findings 
skills, and provide accessible, flexible learning solutions 
that are revolutionizing medical education.
Additional descriptions of the use of ML and DL for 
medical education can be found in the surveys [29, 45].
Many other AI educational systems rely on symbolic AI 
methodologies, which are particularly suited to model logi­
cal inferences on compositional and structured representa­
tions of explicit knowledge [10]. The mere availability of 
explicit knowledge (as, for example, in medical ontologies 
like SNOMED CT and UMLS) has proven effective in 
improving the students’ critical thinking skills [46].
Moving to more complex symbolic AI techniques, one 
of the most famous and typical applications of symbolic AI 
methodologies to medicine is the so called expert systems 
[47], addressing the problem of modeling the diagnostic 
and/or therapeutic treatment of specific diseases based on 
an explicit symbolic representation of experts’ knowledge. 
Most of them have also been used for educational purposes, 
and, later, have evolved into task-specific educational tools. 
For instance, the famous MYCIN system was based on a 
knowledge base of experiential rules (modeled as produc­
tion rules) and used backward chaining reasoning to support 
diagnosis and treatment of bacterial infections [48]. It then 
evolved into the educational systems NEOMYCIN [49] and 
GUIDON [50].
GIDEON [51] is mainly an expert system for infectious 
diseases, but it can also be used as a medical education tool. 
Medical students can use the system to simulate real-world 
cases and test their diagnostic skills. It uses a rule-based 
Bayesian reasoning approach.
DXplain [52] is an expert system designed to suggest a 
list of diseases that are associated with a set of clinical find­
ings entered by a health profession student or practitioner 
widely adopted also in education.
INTERNIST-I [53] was designed to provide computer-
assisted diagnosis in general internal medicine by attempt­
ing to model the reasoning of clinicians. It involves a 
complex diagnostic algorithm, based on explicit knowledge 
including a hierarchy of disease categories and a heteroge­
neous set of properties. The Computer-based Patient Case 
Simulator project was built on top of INTERNIST-I to pro­
vide a tool for teaching diagnosis to medical students [54].
The success of expert-system-based approaches in 
medical education has been relatively limited, largely due 
to problems in extracting expert knowledge and identify­
ing key evidence-based practices for students. However, 
such limitations can be addressed with approaches based 
on computerized clinical guidelines (CIGs), as they exploit 
widely available evidence-based clinical practice guidelines 
(CPGs). However, until now, studies comparing the effect 
of digital education on CPGs have shown only a moder­
ate difference in favor of digital education intervention 
1 3
Page 11 of 15 
    2 


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
	
●
A structured symbolic representation of CPGs at mul­
tiple levels of detail, and a navigation facility to explore 
it,
	
●
The automatic adaptation of CPGs to case studies (i.e., 
automatic focusing on the part of the CPG needed for 
the case study at hand, through the automated simula­
tion facility), and.
	
●
A (self)verification facility.
The main original aspects of GLARE-Edu are the fact that 
it is (to the best of our knowledge) the first CIG-based edu­
cational system that.
	
●
Is domain-independent.
	
●
Provides verification and self-verification facilities.
Additionally, two major technical contributions of our 
approach are:
	
●
The definition and description of a comprehensive ar­
chitecture that integrates CPG acquisition, case study 
acquisition, and the navigation, automated simulation 
and verification facilities.
	
●
The discussion about the extensions needed in order to 
move from a “traditional” CIG-based decision support 
system to an educational system (providing the above 
facilities).
In the short term, future work concerns mainly the large-
scale experimental evaluation discussed in Sect. 4.2.
From the technical point of view, in our long-term 
research plan, we envision two main future developments. 
First of all, we plan to enhance our facility to acquire case 
studies with machine learning or generative AI techniques, 
in order to support the refinement and personalization of 
case studies on the basis of the traces provided by the appli­
cation of the verification facility. Second, another significant 
future extension of GLARE-Edu will address exceptional 
patients, such as comorbid patients (i.e., patients suffering 
from two or more illnesses) [63]. Treating such patients 
presents a dual challenge for the physician, who must be 
capable of adhering to multiple guidelines simultaneously 
while detecting and managing potential interactions.
Building on our previous work concerning the man­
agement of comorbid patients [64, 65], our objective is to 
extend GLARE-Edu along several dimensions:
	
●
First, GLARE-Edu must be equipped to handle case 
studies representing comorbid patients, including all the 
actions that modify CIGs to manage interactions.
	
●
The automated simulation tool must be extended to 
show learners which parts of the different CIGs interact, 
nonetheless represent an interesting effect that will require 
further verification through the more extensive trial cur­
rently underway within the AI-LEAP project.
Notably, to the best of our knowledge, all the CIG-based 
approaches in the AIM literature are symbolic approaches, 
based on an explicit representation of medical knowledge. 
This solution seems quite natural, since CPGs are “golden 
standards” that must be elaborated, specified and, above 
all, certified by dedicated teams of medical experts (these 
requirements are, e.g., explicitly stated in the Italian law 
[59]). Given the availability (in textual CPGs) of such high-
quality knowledge, the adoption of (explicit) knowledge 
representation and reasoning techniques looks natural and 
appropriate, since “A central tenet of the symbolic paradigm 
is that intelligence results from the manipulation of abstract 
compositional representations” [10]. Indeed, machine learn­
ing techniques can be used to discover from data the actual 
medical procedures adopted to manage specific diseases. 
In particular, a specific area of AI, termed process mining, 
has (among the other) the specific task of discovering pro­
cess models from data (more precisely, from the traces of 
the executions of processes) [60]. We are active in such an 
area of research [61, 62], but it is important to point out that 
the process models discovered by process mining consid­
ering the traces of activities performed on patients are not 
(officially recognized) clinical guidelines, since they may 
contain errors and deviations from the “golden standard”. 
Indeed, comparing the discovered process models with the 
CPG “golden standard” is an important activity, to identify 
deviations (which may be either due to errors in the exe­
cution of CPGs, or suggest new practices that experts can 
evaluate to possibly update the CPG golden standard) [60].
In general, we strongly believe that the symbolic and 
machine learning methodologies are highly complementary 
(consider, e.g., [10]), and can be fruitfully integrated in the 
CPG context. For instance, in our future work (see Sect. 6), 
we envision adopting machine learning techniques to refine 
and personalize case studies.
Conclusions and Future Works
In this paper, we have described GLARE-Edu, a symbolic 
AI approach proposing an explicit and structured repre­
sentation of CPGs and navigation, automated simulation 
and verification facilities to support medical education. 
GLARE-Edu educational impact is twofold, since it may 
support teachers both teachers’ activities (supervised use 
of the system) and learners’ autonomous study, providing 
them.
1 3
    2 
 
Page 12 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
References
1.	
Field MJ, Lohr KN (1990) Clinical Practice Guidelines: Direc­
tions for a New Program. National Academies Press (US), Wash­
ington (DC)
2.	
GIN - Home Page. In: GIN. https://g-i-n.net/. Accessed 16 Sep 
2024
3.	
Yi M, Hisham F, Nadir U, Dave L, Shi V, Christensen R, Anv­
ery N, Almidani L, Amer Y, Archer R, Huessin H, Mcfarlane E, 
Mokrane S, Morgan R, de Mortier C, Nix M, A.G. R, Raynor 
M, Cahn B, Alam M (2023) Needs-Gap Assessment of Clinical 
Practice Guidelines in Medical Education: A Qualitative Analysis
4.	
Zainal H, Tan JK, Xiaohui X, Thumboo J, Yong FK (2023) Clini­
cal informatics training in medical school education curricula: a 
scoping review. J Am Med Inform Assoc 30:604–616. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​
.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​9​3​/​j​a​m​i​a​/​o​c​a​c​2​4​5​
5.	
Tudor Car L, Soong A, Kyaw BM, Chua KL, Low-Beer N, 
Majeed A (2019) Health professions digital education on clinical 
practice guidelines: a systematic review by Digital Health Educa­
tion collaboration. BMC Medicine 17:139. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​1​8​
6​/​s​1​2​9​1​6​-​0​1​9​-​1​3​7​0​-​1​
6.	
Peleg M, Tu S, Bury J, Ciccarese P, Fox J, Greenes RA, Hall 
R, Johnson PD, Jones N, Kumar A, Miksch S, Quaglini S, Sey­
fang A, Shortliffe EH, Stefanelli M (2003) Comparing computer-
interpretable guideline models: a case-study approach. J Am Med 
Inform Assoc 10:52–68. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.11​97/ja​mia.m1135
7.	
Peleg M (2013) Computer-interpretable clinical guidelines: a 
methodological review. J Biomed Inform 46:744–763. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​
.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​1​6​/​j​.​j​b​i​.​2​0​1​3​.​0​6​.​0​0​9​
8.	
García-García JA, Carrero M, Escalona MJ, Lizcano D (2024) 
Evaluation of clinical practice guideline-derived clinical decision 
support systems using a novel quality model. J Biomed Inform 
149:104573. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.10​16/j.​jbi.2023.104573
9.	
Terenziani P, Molino G, Torchio M (2001) A modular approach 
for representing and executing clinical guidelines. Artif Intell 
Med 23:249–276
10.	 Garnelo M, Shanahan M (2019) Reconciling deep learning with 
symbolic artificial intelligence: representing objects and rela­
tions. Current Opinion in Behavioral Sciences 29:17–23. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​
o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​1​6​/​j​.​c​o​b​e​h​a​.​2​0​1​8​.​1​2​.​0​1​0​
11.	 Baldoni M, Baroglio C, Bottrighi A, Bucciarelli M, Capecchi S, 
Gandolfi E, Gena C, Ianì F, Marengo E, Marocco D, Micalizio R, 
Piovesan L, Ponticorvo M, Rapp A, Roveta A, Terenziani P, Ugo 
F (2023) Fostering Awareness and Personalization of Learning 
Artificial Intelligence. pp 449–454
12.	 Terenziani P, Montani S, Bottrighi A, Molino G, Torchio M 
(2008) Applying artificial intelligence to clinical guidelines: the 
GLARE approach. Stud Health Technol Inform 139:273–282
13.	 Piovesan L, Terenziani P, Molino G (2018) GLARE-SSCPM: 
An Intelligent System to Support the Treatment of Comorbid 
Patients. IEEE Intelligent Systems 33:37–46. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​
1​1​0​9​/​M​I​S​.​2​0​1​8​.​2​8​8​6​6​9​7​
14.	 Demo GLARE-Edu. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​r​i​v​e​.​g​o​o​g​l​e​.​c​o​m​/​d​r​i​v​e​/​f​o​l​d​e​r​s​/​1​e​i​k​
_​s​j​Q​p​L​n​U​W​e​w​9​o​v​W​J​_​1​D​R​a​u​x​k​t​c​T​Y​h​. Accessed 29 Oct 2024
15.	 Associazione Italiana Oncologia Medica LG AIOM melanoma. ​h​
t​t​p​s​:​/​/​w​w​w​.​a​i​o​m​.​i​t​/​w​p​-​c​o​n​t​e​n​t​/​u​p​l​o​a​d​s​/​2​0​2​0​/​1​0​/​2​0​2​0​_​L​G​_​A​I​O​
M​_​M​e​l​a​n​o​m​a​.​p​d​f​. Accessed 20 Nov 2023
16.	 International Health Terminology Standards Development 
Organisation SNOMED Clinical Terms. ​h​t​t​p​:​/​/​w​w​w​.​i​h​t​s​d​o​.​o​r​g​/​s​
n​o​m​e​d​-​c​t​. Accessed 23 Jan 2024
17.	 Anselma L, Terenziani P, Montani S, Bottrighi A (2006) Towards 
a comprehensive treatment of repetitions, periodicity and tempo­
ral constraints in clinical guidelines. Artif Intell Med 38:171–195. 
https:/​/doi.or​g/10.10​16/j.​artmed.2006.03.007
how to classify interactions (e.g., interactions that en­
hance treatment, ones that cause toxicity), and how to 
apply interaction management strategies.
	
●
The verification tool must be extended to enable learners 
to focus on different sections of the two CIGs and must 
ask them to identify and classify present interactions. 
The module will then ask learners to manage these in­
teractions by correctly applying possible management 
approaches. Such extension is challenging, requiring 
reasoning concerning various knowledge sources (e.g., 
pharmacological, basic medical knowledge, ontological 
knowledge).
Acknowledgements  This research has been partially supported by the 
Università del Piemonte Orientale and by Fondazione Compagnia di 
San Paolo and Fondazione CDP, Bando Intelligenza Artificiale 2, AI-
LEAP project. Erica Raina is a PhD student enrolled in the National 
PhD program in Artificial Intelligence, XXXIX cycle, course on 
Health and life sciences, organized by Università Campus Bio-Medico 
di Roma.
Author Contributions  Conceptualization, A.B., F.G., L.P., A.R. and 
P.T.; methodology, A.B., M.G., F.G., S.N., L.P., E.R., A.R. and P.T.; 
software, A.B., S.N., L.P. and E.R.; validation, A.B., M.G., F.G., S.N., 
L.P., E.R., A.R. and P.T.; investigation, A.B., M.G., F.G., L.P., A.R. and 
P.T.; resources, A.M. and A.R.; data curation, A.B., M.G., F.G., L.P. 
and P.T.; writing—original draft preparation, A.B., F.G. and P.T.; writ­
ing – review & editing, A.B., L.P, E.R. and P.T.; visualization, S.N., 
L.P. and E.R.; supervision, P.T.; project administration, A.M. and A.R.; 
funding acquisition, P.T. All authors have read and agreed to the pub­
lished version of the manuscript.
Funding  Open access funding provided by Università degli Studi 
del Piemonte Orientale Amedeo Avogrado within the CRUI-CARE 
Agreement.
This research has been partially supported by the Università del 
Piemonte Orientale, and by Fondazione Compagnia di San Paolo and 
Fondazione CDP, Bando Intelligenza Artificiale 2, AI-LEAP project.
Data Availability  The data that support the findings of this study are 
available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.
Declarations
Competing Interests  The authors declare no competing interests.
Open Access   This article is licensed under a Creative Commons 
Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, 
adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, 
as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the 
source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate 
if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this 
article are included in the article’s Creative Commons licence, unless 
indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not 
included in the article’s Creative Commons licence and your intended 
use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted 
use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright 
holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit ​h​t​t​p​:​/​/​c​r​e​a​t​i​v​e​c​o​m​m​o​n​s​.​o​
r​g​/​l​i​c​e​n​s​e​s​/​b​y​/​4​.​0​/​.​
1 3
Page 13 of 15 
    2 


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
33.	 Ali S, Akhlaq F, Imran AS, Kastrati Z, Daudpota SM, Moosa M 
(2023) The enlightening role of explainable artificial intelligence 
in medical & healthcare domains: A systematic literature review. 
Computers in Biology and Medicine 166:107555. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​
1​0​.​1​0​1​6​/​j​.​c​o​m​p​b​i​o​m​e​d​.​2​0​2​3​.​1​0​7​5​5​5​
34.	 Calisto FM, Nunes N, Nascimento JC (2022) Modeling adoption 
of intelligent agents in medical imaging. International Journal of 
Human-Computer Studies 168:102922. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​1​6​/​j​.​
i​j​h​c​s​.​2​0​2​2​.​1​0​2​9​2​2​
35.	 Bradshaw TJ, Huemann Z, Hu J, Rahmim A (2023) A Guide to 
Cross-Validation for Artificial Intelligence in Medical Imaging. 
Radiology: Artificial Intelligence 5:e220232. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​
1​4​8​/​r​y​a​i​.​2​2​0​2​3​2​
36.	 Diogo P, Morais M, Calisto FM, Santiago C, Aleluia C, Nasci­
mento JC (2023) Weakly-Supervised Diagnosis and Detection of 
Breast Cancer Using Deep Multiple Instance Learning. In: 2023 
IEEE 20th International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging 
(ISBI). pp 1–4
37.	 Fajrianti ED, Sukaridhoto S, Rasyid MUHA, Suwito BE, Budi­
arti RPN, Hafidz IAA, Satrio NA, Haz AL (2022) Application of 
Augmented Intelligence Technology with Human Body Tracking 
for Human Anatomy Education. IJIET 12:476–484. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​
g​/​1​0​.​1​8​1​7​8​/​i​j​i​e​t​.​2​0​2​2​.​1​2​.​6​.​1​6​4​4​
38.	 Aldeman NLS, De Sá Urtiga Aita KM, Machado VP, Da Mata 
Sousa LCD, Coelho AGB, Da Silva AS, Da Silva Mendes AP, De 
Oliveira Neres FJ, Do Monte SJH (2021) Smartpathk: a platform 
for teaching glomerulopathies using machine learning. BMC 
Med Educ 21:248. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.11​86/s1​2909-021-02680-1
39.	 Peter H, Goodridge W (2004) Integrating Two Artificial Intelli­
gence Theories in a Medical Diagnosis Application. In: Bramer 
M, Devedzic V (eds) Artificial Intelligence Applications and 
Innovations. Springer US, Boston, MA, pp 11–23
40.	 Wang M, Sun Z, Jia M, Wang Y, Wang H, Zhu X, Chen L, Ji H 
(2022) Intelligent virtual case learning system based on real med­
ical records and natural language processing. BMC Med Inform 
Decis Mak 22:60. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.11​86/s1​2911-022-01797-7
41.	 McCoy L, Lewis JH, Dalton D (2016) Gamification and Multi­
media for Medical Education: A Landscape Review. J Am Osteo­
path Assoc 116:22–34. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.75​56/ja​oa.2016.003
42.	 Nakawala H, Ferrigno G, De Momi E (2018) Development of 
an intelligent surgical training system for Thoracentesis. Artificial 
Intelligence in Medicine 84:50–63. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​1​6​/​j​.​a​r​t​m​
e​d​.​2​0​1​7​.​1​0​.​0​0​4​
43.	 Yilmaz R, Winkler-Schwartz A, Mirchi N, Reich A, Christie S, 
Tran DH, Ledwos N, Fazlollahi AM, Santaguida C, Sabbagh AJ, 
Bajunaid K, Del Maestro R (2022) Continuous monitoring of sur­
gical bimanual expertise using deep neural networks in virtual 
reality simulation. npj Digit Med 5:54. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​3​8​/​s​4​
1​7​4​6​-​0​2​2​-​0​0​5​9​6​-​8​
44.	 Hisey R, Camire D, Erb J, Howes D, Fichtinger G, Ungi T (2022) 
System for Central Venous Catheterization Training Using Com­
puter Vision-Based Workflow Feedback. IEEE Trans Biomed Eng 
69:1630–1638. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.11​09/TB​ME.2021.3124422
45.	 Zhang W, Cai M, Lee HJ, Evans R, Zhu C, Ming C (2024) AI in 
Medical Education: Global situation, effects and challenges. Educ 
Inf Technol 29:4611–4633. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​0​7​/​s​1​0​6​3​9​-​0​2​3​-​1​
2​0​0​9​-​8​
46.	 Chang E, Mostafa J (2021) The use of SNOMED CT, 2013–2020: 
a literature review. Journal of the American Medical Informatics 
Association 28:2017–2026. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​9​3​/​j​a​m​i​a​/​o​c​a​b​0​8​
4​
47.	 Zhou L, Sordo M (2021) Chap. 5 - Expert systems in medicine. 
In: Xing L, Giger ML, Min JK (eds) Artificial Intelligence in 
Medicine. Academic Press, pp 75–100
18.	 2021 ESC Guidelines on cardiovascular disease prevention in 
clinical practice. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​w​w​w​.​e​s​c​a​r​d​i​o​.​o​r​g​/​G​u​i​d​e​l​i​n​e​s​/​C​l​i​n​i​c​a​
l​-​P​r​a​c​t​i​c​e​-​G​u​i​d​e​l​i​n​e​s​/​C​V​D​-​P​r​e​v​e​n​t​i​o​n​-​G​u​i​d​e​l​i​n​e​s​. Accessed 29 
Oct 2024
19.	 ECM PIEMONTE. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​w​w​w​.​f​o​r​m​a​z​i​o​n​e​s​a​n​i​t​a​p​i​e​m​o​n​t​e​.​i​t​/​j​s​p​
/​i​n​d​e​x​.​j​s​p​. Accessed 29 Oct 2024
20.	 Fondazione Bruno Kessler. In: FBK. https://www.fbk.eu/it/. 
Accessed 29 Oct 2024
21.	 Kononowicz AA, Woodham LA, Edelbring S, Stathakarou N, 
Davies D, Saxena N, Tudor Car L, Carlstedt-Duke J, Car J, Zary 
N (2019) Virtual Patient Simulations in Health Professions Edu­
cation: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis by the Digital 
Health Education Collaboration. J Med Internet Res 21:e14676. 
https://doi.org/10.2196/14676
22.	 Gellner C, Witte A-K, Winkler T (2023) Design and Development 
of Virtual Patients for Healthcare Education: State of the Art and 
Research
23.	 Kononowicz AA, Zary N, Edelbring S, Corral J, Hege I (2015) 
Virtual patients - what are we talking about? A framework to clas­
sify the meanings of the term in healthcare education. BMC Med 
Educ 15:11. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.11​86/s1​2909-015-0296-3
24.	 McDowell BJ, Nardini DL, Negley SA, White JE (1984) Evaluat­
ing Clinical Performance Using Simulated Patients. J Nurs Educ 
23:37–39. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.39​28/01​48-4834-19840101-11
25.	 Aghili R, Khamseh ME, Taghavinia M, Malek M, Emami Z, 
Baradaran HR, Mafinejad MK (2012) Virtual patient simulation: 
Promotion of clinical reasoning abilities of medical students. 
Knowledge Management & E-Learning: An International Journal 
4:518–527
26.	 Mattei LD, Morato MQ, Sidhu V, Gautam N, Mendonca CT, Tsai 
A, Hammer M, Creighton-Wong L, Azzam A (2024) Are Artificial 
Intelligence Virtual Simulated Patients (AI-VSP) a Valid Teach­
ing Modality for Health Professional Students? Clinical Simula­
tion In Nursing 92:. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.10​16/j.​ecns.2024.101536
27.	 Kotwal S, Fanai M, Fu W, Wang Z, Bery AK, Omron R, Tevzadze 
N, Gold D, Garibaldi BT, Wright SM, Newman-Toker DE (2021) 
Real-world virtual patient simulation to improve diagnostic per­
formance through deliberate practice: a prospective quasi-exper­
imental study. Real-world virtual patient simulation to improve 
diagnostic performance through deliberate practice: a prospective 
quasi-experimental study 8:489
28.	 Gordon M, Daniel M, Ajiboye A, Uraiby H, Xu NY, Bartlett 
R, Hanson J, Haas M, Spadafore M, Grafton-Clarke C, Gasiea 
RY, Michie C, Corral J, Kwan B, Dolmans D, Thammasitboon 
S (2024) A scoping review of artificial intelligence in medical 
education: BEME Guide No. 84. Medical Teacher 46:446–470. 
https:/​/doi.or​g/10.10​80/01​42159X.2024.2314198
29.	 Narayanan S, Ramakrishnan R, Durairaj E, Das A, Narayanan S, 
Ramakrishnan R, Durairaj E, Das A (2023) Artificial Intelligence 
Revolutionizing the Field of Medical Education. Cureus 15:. 
https:/​/doi.or​g/10.77​59/cu​reus.49604
30.	 Mir MM, Mir GM, Raina NT, Mir SM, Mir SM, Miskeen E, 
Alharthi MH, Alamri MMS (2023) Application of Artificial 
Intelligence in Medical Education: Current Scenario and Future 
Perspectives. Journal of Advances in Medical Education & Pro­
fessionalism 11:133. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​3​0​4​7​6​/​J​A​M​P​.​2​0​2​3​.​9​8​6​5​5​
.​1​8​0​3​
31.	 Blease C, Kharko A, Bernstein M, Bradley C, Houston M, Walsh 
I, Hägglund M, DesRoches C, Mandl KD (2022) Machine learn­
ing in medical education: a survey of the experiences and opin­
ions of medical students in Ireland. BMJ Health Care Inform 
29:e100480. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.11​36/bm​jhci-2021-100480
32.	 Kolachalama VB, Garg PS (2018) Machine learning and medical 
education. npj Digital Med 1:1–3. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​3​8​/​s​4​1​7​4​
6​-​0​1​8​-​0​0​6​1​-​1​
1 3
    2 
 
Page 14 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems            (2025) 49:2 
e-learning tool. Int J Med Inform 113:49–55. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​
0​1​6​/​j​.​i​j​m​e​d​i​n​f​.​2​0​1​8​.​0​2​.​0​0​6​
58.	 Uribe-Ocampo S, Torres EA, Luna IF, Florez-Arango JF, Smith 
JW (2019) SIM-CIG: A Serious Game to Practice and Improve 
Clinical Guidelines Adoption Based on Computer-Interpretable 
Guidelines. Stud Health Technol Inform 264:1997–1998. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​
d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​3​2​3​3​/​S​H​T​I​1​9​0​7​5​3​
59.	 Gazzetta Ufficiale. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​w​w​w​.​g​a​z​z​e​t​t​a​u​f​f​​i​c​i​a​l​e​.​i​t​/​e​l​i​/​i​d​/​2​0​1​7​/​0​3​
/​1​7​/​1​7​G​0​0​0​4​1​/​s​g​. Accessed 9 Nov 2024
60.	 Process Mining Manifesto - IEEE Task Force on Process Min­
ing. https:/​/www.tf​-pm.org​/reso​urces/manifesto. Accessed 9 Nov 
2024
61.	 Bottrighi A, Canensi L, Leonardi G, Montani S, Terenziani P 
(2018) Interactive mining and retrieval from process traces. 
Expert Systems with Applications 110:62–79. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​
.​1​0​1​6​/​j​.​e​s​w​a​.​2​0​1​8​.​0​5​.​0​4​1​
62.	 Bottrighi A, Guazzone M, Leonardi G, Montani S, Striani M, 
Terenziani P (2022) Integrating ISA and Part-of Domain Knowl­
edge into Process Model Discovery. Future Internet 14:357. 
https:/​/doi.or​g/10.33​90/fi​14120357
63.	 Van Woensel W, Tu SW, Michalowski W, Sibte Raza Abidi S, 
Abidi S, Alonso J-R, Bottrighi A, Carrier M, Edry R, Hochberg 
I, Rao M, Kingwell S, Kogan A, Marcos M, Martínez Salvador 
B, Michalowski M, Piovesan L, Riaño D, Terenziani P, Wilk S, 
Peleg M (2023) A community-of-practice-based evaluation meth­
odology for knowledge intensive computational methods and its 
application to multimorbidity decision support. J Biomed Inform 
142:104395. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.10​16/j.​jbi.2023.104395
64.	 Piovesan L, Molino G, Terenziani P (2015) Supporting multi-
level user-driven detection of guideline interactions. pp 413–422
65.	 Piovesan L, Terenziani P, Theseider Dupré D (2020) Confor­
mance analysis for comorbid patients in Answer Set Program­
ming. J Biomed Inform 103:103377. ​h​t​t​p​s​:​/​/​d​o​i​.​o​r​g​/​1​0​.​1​0​1​6​/​j​.​j​b​i​
.​2​0​2​0​.​1​0​3​3​7​7​
Publisher’s Note  Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to juris­
dictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
48.	 Shortliffe EH (1977) Mycin: A Knowledge-Based Computer Pro­
gram Applied to Infectious Diseases. Proc Annu Symp Comput 
Appl Med Care 66–69
49.	 Clancey WJ, Letsinger R (1981) NEOMYCIN: reconfiguring 
a rule-based expert system for application to teaching. In: Pro­
ceedings of the 7th international joint conference on Artificial 
intelligence - Volume 2. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc., San 
Francisco, CA, USA, pp 829–836
50.	 Clancey WJ (1984) Use of MYCIN’s rules for tutoring. In: Rule-
Based Expert Systems. Addison-Wesley, Reading. pp 464–489
51.	 Yu VL, Edberg SC (2005) Global Infectious Diseases and Epi­
demiology Network (GIDEON): A World Wide Web-Based 
Program for Diagnosis and Informatics in Infectious Diseases. 
Clinical Infectious Diseases 40:123–126. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.10​
86/42​6549
52.	 Hoffer EP, Feldman MJ, Kim RJ, Famiglietti KT, Barnett GO 
(2005) DXplain: Patterns of Use of a Mature Expert System. 
AMIA Annual Symposium Proceedings 2005:321
53.	 Pople Jr HE (1976) Presentation of the INTERNIST system. In: 
Proceedings of the AIM workshop, rutgers research resource on 
computers in biomedicine, rutgers university (june 1976)
54.	 Chin HL, Cooper GF (1989) Case-based tutoring from a medical 
knowledge base. Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedi­
cine 30:185–198. https:/​/doi.or​g/10.10​16/01​69-2607(89)90071-0
55.	 Boxwala AA, Greenes RA, Deibel SR (1999) Architecture for 
a multipurpose guideline execution engine. Proc AMIA Symp 
701–705
56.	 Real F, Riaño D, Alonso JR (2014) Training Residents in the 
Application of Clinical Guidelines for Differential Diagnosis of 
the Most Frequent Causes of Arterial Hypertension with Deci­
sion Tables. In: Miksch S, Riaño D, Teije A ten (eds) Knowledge 
Representation for Health Care – 6th International Workshop, 
KR4HC 2014, Held as Part of the Vienna Summer of Logic, VSL 
2014, Vienna, Austria, July 21, 2014, Revised Selected Papers. 
Springer, pp 147–159
57.	 Riaño D, Real F, Alonso JR (2018) Improving resident’s skills 
in the management of circulatory shock with a knowledge-based 
1 3
Page 15 of 15 
    2 
