1)　Hoàng Bảo Châu, Phó Dức Thực and Hữu Ngọc, “Overview of Viet namese Traditional
Medicine,” in id., eds., Viet namese Traditional Medicine (2nd ed.) (Hanoi: The Giới Publishers,
1999), pp. 1–28; Lâm Giang, “Thư tịch y dược cổ truyền Việt Nam thực trạng” [The ac tual state
of books of Viet namese traditional medicine and pharmacology], in id., ed., Tìm hiểu thư tịch y
dược cổ truyền Việt Nam [A study of books of Viet namese traditional medicine and pharmacology]
(Hanoi: Nhà xuất bản Khoa học xã hội, 2009), pp. 13–190 (this study has been cited on the basis
87
PREAM BLE
From the fourteenth cen tury on wards, the Viet namese, em phasizing the distin ctive
ness of Viet nam, lying as it did to the south of China, called their own medicine
“Sout hern medicine” (nam y 南醫 or nam dược 南藥) and Chinese medicine or Viet
namized Chinese medicine “Northern medicine” (bắc y 北醫 or bắc dược 北藥). After
French rule began in the nineteenth cen tury, these two traditions of medicine were
toget her called “Eastern medicine” (đông y 東醫) in con trast to “Western medicine”
(tây y 西醫). Further, following in depen den ce in 1945, the term “Eastern medicine”
(đông y học 東醫學) was used; then, after the deterioration of relations bet ween
China and Viet nam in 1978, the term “et hnic medicine” (dân tộc y học 民族醫學)
came in to use, and sin ce 1986 the term “Viet namese traditional medicine” (Việt Nam
truyện thống y học 越南傳統醫學) has been used toget her with “Eastern medicine.”
Today, specialists in Eastern medicine are being trained in six-year courses at Tuệ
Tĩnh College of Traditional Medicine and in departments of Eastern medicine at six
medical schools, and graduates are en gaged in the treat ment of patients. In 1961
an In stitute of Eastern Medicine and a Society of Eastern Medicine were also
established.
Because of its high tem peratures, humidity, and wars, many medical texts and
ot her sources have been lost in Viet nam. Partly for this reason, in this artic le I wish
to survey the traditions of Viet namese medicine and its charac teristics during the
Trần 陳 (1225–1413), Lê 黎 (1428–1789), and Nguyễn 阮 (1802–1945) dynasties,
which were in depen dent of China. The following survey is based on prior research
by ot hers1) and also on my own previous research.2)
The Traditions and Charac teristics of Viet namese Medicine

MAYANAGI Makoto


of an abridged Japanese tran slation by Ōnishi Kazuhiko 大西和彦); and Nguyễn Thị Dương, “Ngư
tiều y thuật vấn đáp trong tủ sách đông y thời Nguyễn” [The Ngư tiều y thuật vấn đáp on the
bookcase of Eastern medicine during the Nguyễn dynasty], Tạp chí Hán Nôm 漢喃雜誌 103
(2010), pp. 56–62.
2)　Mayanagi Makoto 真柳誠, “Betonamu kokka toshokan no koiseki shoshi” ベトナム國家圖書
館の古醫籍書誌 [The bibliograp hy of the old medical books in the National Library of Viet nam
(sic)], Jin bun Gakka Ronshū 人文学科論集 (Ibaraki Univ.) 45 (2006), pp. 1–16; id., “Nghiên cứu so
sánh định lượng thư tịch y học cổ truyền các nước khu vực đồng văn” [Quan titative com parative
studies on traditional medical treatises in coun tries using the same lan guage (i. e., classical
Chinese)], Tạp chí Hán Nôm 97 (2009), pp. 10–29; id., “Betonamu kokka toshokan no koiseki
shoshi: hoi (ic hi)” ベトナム國家圖書館の古醫籍書誌　補遺 (一) [The bibliograp hy of the old medical
books in the National Library of Viet nam: Adden dum (1)], Jin bun Komyunikēshon Gakka Ronshū
人文コミュニケーション学科論集 (Ibaraki Univ.) 10 (2011), pp. 21–39; id., “Betonamu kokka
toshokan no koiseki shoshi: hoi (ni)” ベトナム國家圖書館の古醫籍書誌　補遺 (二) [The bibliograp hy
of the old medical books in the National Library of Viet nam: Adden dum (2)], Jin bun
Komyunikēshon Gakka Ronshū 11 (2011), pp. 51–73; and id., “Betonamu Kan-Nan Ken kyūjo no
koiseki shoshi” ベトナム漢喃研究所の古醫籍書誌 [The bibliograp hy of the old medical books in the
In stitute of Han-Nom Studies, Viet nam (sic)], (1)–(7), Jin bun Komyunikēshon Gakka Ronshū 12
(2012), pp. 19–42; 13 (2012), pp. 53–76; 14 (2013), pp. 39–65; 15 (2013), pp. 71–97; 16 (2014),
pp. 17–46; 17 (2014), pp. 51–76; 18 (2015), pp. 17–41.
3)　It is possible that some of the old books held in Hue were lost during the massac re at Hue
during the Tet Offen sive in 1968. There is said to be a depository of medical and pharmacological
treatises in Hue in the home of an elderly woman who is the gran ddaughter of Trương Dăng Quế
張登桂, a minister during the Nguyễn dynasty, and some texts of the Im perial Academy of Medi
cine may have survived.
88
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
I. THE HISTORY OF VIET NAM AND MEDICAL SOURCES
From the second cen tury B. C., when northern Viet nam was ruled by China’s Han 漢
dynasty, Chinese rule of northern Viet nam con tinued un til the tenth cen tury except
for a brief period during the sixth cen tury. Con sequen tly, the Chinese script was
widely used, and a civil service examination system modeled on that of China
operated from the eleventh cen tury, after northern Viet nam gained in depen den ce
from China, un til 1918. The chữ nôm 字喃 charac ters used for writing Viet namese
were used from the thirteenth cen tury down to the mid-twen tieth cen tury, and Viet
namese was usually writ ten in mixed Hán-Nôm 漢喃, com bining Chinese charac ters
with chữ nôm charac ters. The majority of early books of the Lý Trần 李陳 period
(11th to 14th cen turies) were lost during Ming 明 rule and the war for in depen den ce
in the early ﬁfteenth cen tury, and extant books are limited to manuscripts and prin ted
books postdating the ﬁfteenth cen tury. The state collec tion of books that was held in
Thăng Long 昇龍 (present-day Hanoi), the capital of the Lê dynasty, was later moved
to Phú Xuân 富春 (present-day Hue), the capital of the Nguyễn dynasty (1802–1945).
Partly because the in habitants of Hue are un favorably disposed towards the govern
ment in Hanoi,3) the current state of these materials has still not been adequately


89
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
in vestigated, although during the period of French rule many of the books held in Hue
were copied by the É cole française d’Extrê me-Orient, and almost all of the old
books it collec ted are today held in the In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies (Viện Nghiên
cứu Hán Nôm) in Hanoi.
On ly medical and pharmacological works dating from the fourteenth cen tury and
later are known today. Nonet heless, from the period of in depen dent dynasties that
began in the eleventh cen tury, court physicians were using expen sive Chinese medi
cines to manage the health of the king and ofﬁcials, while village doc tors were treat
ing ordinary peop le with cheap Viet namese medicines produced in Viet nam. These
local doc tors would probably have kept records of their experien ces, but because of
their need to make a living such manuscript writings would have been regarded as
“sec ret” and would not have circulated widely, and it is on ly natural that they would
have been gradually lost.
I on ce in vestigated about one hun dred old books (all originals) at the National
Library of Viet nam (Thư viện Quốc gia Việt Nam) and found 59 Viet namese books
and 16 Chinese books related to medicine and pharmacology. I likewise examined
about ﬁve hun dred books (both originals and copies) at the In stitute of Hán-Nôm
Studies and found 323 Viet namese books and 22 Chinese books related to medicine
and pharmacology. Among these books, there were 19 Viet namese books on medi
cine and pharmacology and 2 Viet namese books on plants and natural scien ce held
by both in stitutions, and if we exclude these, there were 361 Viet namese medical and
pharmacological books, the majority of which dated from the eighteenth to twen tieth
cen turies. They in cluded formularies (64), books on smallpox and measles (43),
books on obstet rics, gynecology, and pediat rics (37), general works on various areas
of medicine (29), and books on diagnosis (26), and these trends in num bers are
similar to the situation in China, Japan, and Korea. There was, however, a high
proportion of works on obstet rics, gynecology, and pediat rics, and the presen ce of 11
works related to Taoism and Buddhism was a charac teristic peculiar to Viet nam.
Records of the prin ting of books in Viet nam go back to the fourteenth cen tury, but
up un til the mid-twen tieth cen tury the vast majority of books were com piled by the
government and published by the state, and not many books were published privately
or com mercially. Some medical and pharmacological books were published non-
com mercially by Buddhist and Taoist tem ples, but few of these have survived.
Com mercially published medical and pharmacological books were also few in
num ber, and most that have survived were prin ted in the nineteenth cen tury and later.
Con sequen tly, the majority of medical and pharmacological texts have been trans
mit ted as manuscripts that were formerly kept sec ret. Furthermore, in formation about
old books held throughout Viet nam is not exhaustive at the present stage. Owing


4)　Chu Văn An 朱文安 (real name: Chu An 朱安; courtesy name: Linh Triệt 靈澤) was born on
the out skirts of Hanoi on the 25th of the eighth month of 1292 and died on the 28th of the eleventh
month of 1370 at the age of seven ty-eight. In stead of en tering government service after passing
the civil service examinations, he opened a school in his home district and taught many students.
During the reign of Minh Tông 明宗 (1314–29), he became a teac her for a time at the Im perial
Academy (quốc tử giám 國子監), where he taught the crown prin ce. He is regarded as one of the
luminaries of Viet namese Con fucianism and com posed an in troduc tion to Chu Hsi’s 朱熹 Ssu-shu
chi-chu 四書集注 (Collec ted Com men taries on the Four Books) un der the tit le Tứ thư thuyết ước 四
書説約 (Con cise Exposition of the Four Books) in 10 volumes. This is the oldest extant Viet namese
work related to the Con fucian classics and is also the oldest eviden ce of the tran smission of Neo-
Con fucianism to Viet nam.
5)　Tuệ Tĩnh is a monastic name that was used by several monks from the tenth to seven teenth
cen turies, and ac cording to some, one of these was Hồng Nghĩa 洪義 of the early ﬁfteenth cen tury,
who was well versed in medicine.
90
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
to these various circum stan ces, it remains difﬁcult to trace the history of Viet-
namese medicine and pharmacology in terms of historical facts back before the Trần
dynasty.
II.　MEDICAL AND PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATISES OF THE TRẦN DYNASTY
(1225–1400) AND TUỆ TĨNH
Viet nam’s oldest extant medical treatise is con sidered to be the Y học yếu giải 醫學要
解 (Exposition of the Essen tials of Medicine) com piled by Chu Văn An (1292–
1370).4) I have not seen this work, but it analyzes the etiology and pat hology of
various diseases on the basis of the Chinese medical classic Nei-ching 內經 and
describes diagnoses and treat ments, and the com piler is said to have devised two
prescrip tions for treating in fec tious fevers and chills.
The physician rep resen tative of the Trần dynasty was Tuệ Tĩnh 慧靖 (1330–1385–
?), who was born Nguyễn Bá Tĩnh 阮伯靖. He passed the civil service examinations
in 1374 at the age of forty-ﬁve, but in stead of en tering government service, he took
the ton sure and began prac ticing Buddhism at Buddhist tem ples, and it seems that he
prac ticed medicine un der his monastic name, ﬁrst Huệ Tĩnh 惠靖 and later Tuệ Tĩnh
慧靖 (frequen tly miswrit ten 慧靜). He was sent to China in his capacity as a monk in
1385, but he was detained there so that he could prac tice medicine, and he is said to
have died in China. This means that his medical writings must predate 1385.5)
In 1717 the Lê dynasty com piled and published Tuệ Tĩnh’s writings un der the tit le
Hồng Nghĩa giác tư y thư 洪義覺斯醫書 (Medical Books of Hồng Nghĩa giác tư) in
two volumes. The ﬁrst volume con sists of the Nam dược quốc ngữ phú 南藥國語賦
(Prose-poem in the Viet namese Lan guage on Sout hern Drugs) and Trực giải chỉ nam
dược tính phú 直解指南藥性賦 (Prose-poem of Instruc tions Direc tly Explaining the


Fig. 1. Hồng Nghĩa giác tư y thư, vol. 2
(National Library of Viet nam [NLV],
R.1556)
Fig. 2. Nam dược thần hiệu, opening vol.
(NLV, R.1740)
91
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
Properties of Sout hern Drugs), while the second volume (ﬁg. 1) con sists of the Thập
tam phương gia giảm 十三方加減 (Thirteen Formulas with Additive and Subtrac tive
Adjustments), Thương hàn cách pháp trị lệ 傷寒格法治例 (Exam ples of Met hods for
Treating Cold Damage), and Chứng trị phương pháp 症治方法 (Met hods for Treating
Maladies). It is clear, however, that the Thập tam phương gia giảm is an abridged
Hán-Nôm tran slation of the Chinese Yüan 元-period Chia-chien shih-san fa 加減十三
方 (ﬁrst pub. 1413), while the Thương hàn cách pháp trị lệ is likewise an abridged
Hán-Nôm tran slation of the Sha-ch‘e ch‘ui-fa 殺車槌法 (Met hod for Crushing Cold
Damage) among the Ming-period Shang-han liu-shu 傷寒六書 (Six Treatises on Cold
Damage) (ﬁrst pub. 1522), and therefore they are un doubtedly additions at tributed to
Tuệ Tĩnh that date from the sixteenth to eighteenth cen turies. The edition illustrated
in ﬁg. 1 (of which on ly vol. 2 survives) is not from the ﬁrst edition in 1717, but
probably from a nineteenth-cen tury rep rint.
The Nam dược quốc ngữ phú records the Chinese names, Viet namese names, and
effects of Sout hern drugs in com mon use in Viet nam in the form of twen ty-four Hán-
Nôm prose-poems. Although it has modiﬁcations and additions made in later times,


92
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
it in cludes some old forms of chữ nôm charac ters, and the original work may
therefore be con sidered to have been writ ten by Tuệ Tĩnh. The Trực giải chỉ nam
dược tính phú lists 218 drugs classiﬁed by treat ment in the form of a Chinese prose-
poem, and it begins by em phasizing the fact that Sout hern medicines produced in
Viet nam are ap prop riate for illnesses prevalent in Viet nam: “If one wishes to beneﬁt
the peop le, one should ﬁrst seek out sac red medicines. Heaven ly writings will most
certain ly ap pear in the coun try in the south, and locally produced [medicines] differ
from those of the land to the north” (欲惠生民，先尋聖藥。天書越定南邦，土産有殊北
國). At the end of this work men tion is also made of “the exten sive beneﬁt of the
South” (南天廣惠), and sin ce the charac ter tuệ 惠 is used both at the start and at the
end, this work may be con sidered to have been writ ten by Tuệ Tĩnh (惠靖 = 慧靖).
In addition, Tuệ Tĩnh also seems to have writ ten the original version of the Nam
dược thần hiệu thập khoa ứng trị 南藥神效十科應治 (Miraculous Efﬁcacy of Sout hern
Drugs Ap plied to the Treat ment of Ten Bran ches of Medicine). A manuscript copied
by the É cole française d’Extrê me-Orient and held by the In stitute of Hán-Nôm
Studies (A.1270) in cludes the preface to a 1761 rep rint, and it con stitutes an 11-
volume com pen dium of medicine con sisting of an opening volume and ten volumes
ran ging in subject mat ter from cerebrovascular disorders (vol. 1) to surgery (vol. 10).
The opening volume, “Dược phẩm nam danh khí vị chính trị ca quát” 藥品南名氣味
正治歌括 (Songs Sum marizing the Sout hern Names, Properties, and Effects of
Drugs), was rep rin ted three times in the ﬁrst half of the twen tieth cen tury un der the
tit le Nam dược thần hiệu 南藥神效 (Miraculous Efﬁcacy of Sout hern Drugs) (ﬁg. 2 is
from an edition published in Hanoi in 1920). This opening volume records in the
form of songs of several lines the Chinese names, Viet namese names (in chữ nôm
charac ters), effects, and met hods of preparation for 563 medicines classiﬁed in to
herbs, grains, vegetables, fruits, and so on. Sin ce the met hod of classiﬁcation coin
cides by and large with that of the Chinese Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu 本草綱目 (Guidelines
and Details of Materia Medica) (ﬁrst pub. 1596), there can be no doubt that it was
substan tially revised and sup plemen ted in later times. However, vols. 1–10 are all
writ ten in Hán-Nôm, in clude many sim ple treat ments using Sout hern drugs, and
show lit tle Chinese inﬂuen ce, and therefore the received text probably derives from
an original work by Tuệ Tĩnh.
At any rate, Tuệ Tĩnh’s view that Sout hern medicines should be used to treat the
Viet namese and his use of the song format were to have an enormous inﬂuen ce on
subsequent Viet namese medicine and medical and pharmacological treatises.


6)　Phan Phu Tiên 潘孚先 (d. u.) was born on the out skirts of Hanoi. He passed the civil service
examinations in 1396 during the Trần dynasty and then again in 1429 during the Lê dynasty,
even tually rising to the position of erudite (bác sĩ 博士) in the Im perial Academy. He also com
piled the 6-volume Việt âm thi tập 越音詩集, Viet nam’s ﬁrst literary an thology, which con tains 624
poetic works from the Trần to Lê dynasties.
7)　Nguyễn Trực 阮直 was born to the west of present-day Hanoi and passed the civil service
examinations in 1442. In the years 1443–53 he served as a government historiograp her.
93
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
III.　MEDICAL AND PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATISES OF THE LÊ DYNASTY
(1428–1789)
1. Phan Phu Tiên’s Bản Thảo Thực Vật Toản Yếu
At the start of this period, the original version of the Bản thảo thực vật toản yếu 本草
食物纂要 (Collec ted Essen tials of Comestible Materia Medica) was com posed. The
extant text of this work was han dcopied by the É cole française d’Extrê me-Orient
(In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.1219), and it classiﬁes 392 readily obtainable
Sout hern drugs and everyday foodstuffs in to herbs, vegetables, minerals, etc., adds
the Viet namese equivalents in chữ nôm charac ters to their Chinese names, and also
records their properties, efﬁcacy, detoxiﬁcation met hods, and so on. It also in cludes
a postscript by Phan Phu Tiên, ac cording to which it was com piled in 1429. Phan
Phu Tiên gained the degree of presen ted scholar (tiến sĩ 進士) in both the Trần and
Lê dynasties and made con tributions to history and literature,6) and his period of
ac tivity and ofﬁcial posts do not conﬂict with the postscript’s con tents.
This work also has an un dated, anonymous preface, ac cording to which it was
excerpted from various pharmacopoeias and Li Shih-chen’s 李時珍 Pen-ts‘ao kang-
mu. Sin ce the main text in cludes many quotations from Li Shih-chen’s work, there
can be no doubt that use was made of the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu. But because the
sixteenth-cen tury date of the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu conﬂicts with Phan Phu Tiên’s
dates, it may be assumed that later additions and modiﬁcations were made to the
preface and main text and that the extant text differs con siderably from the original
work. However, sin ce some old chữ nôm charac ters found in the ﬁfteenth-cen tury
Hồng Dức quốc âm thi tập 洪徳國音詩集 (An thology of Poems in Viet namese Pronun-
ciation by Hồng Dức) are used, it may be sup posed that there existed a pharma
copoeia of comestibles by Phan Phu Tiên that served as a basis for the extant version.
2. Nguyễn Trực’s Bảo Anh Lương Phương
The presen ted scholar Nguyễn Trực (1417–73)7) com piled the 4-volume Bảo anh
lương phương 保嬰良方 (Effec tive Prescrip tions for Protec ting In fants), the oldest
extant Viet namese work on pediat rics. On ly a han dcopy of the volume on spring,


94
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
made by the É cole française d’Extrê me-Orient (In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies,
A.1462), is extant, and the whereabouts of the volumes on sum mer, autumn, and
win ter are un known. In Nguyễn Trực’s un dated preface it is stated that, “Although it
is out side my area of expertise, I studied Chinese medical and pharmacological
treatises and collec ted and excerpted their essen ce.” Ac cording to the tit le page, this
work was presen ted “on an auspicious day in the seventh month, in autumn, of the
second year of the Diên Ninh 延寧 era (1455),” and so it is evident that it was
com pleted in 1455. Its stan dardized format suggests that the base text of the hand
copy may have been a prin ted edition. It is writ ten in Chinese and con tains no chữ
nôm charac ters.
The extant portion of this work describes diagnoses and treat ments for in fants’
skin diseases, con vulsions, smallpox, measles, etc., in the form of songs, prose-
poems, expositions, discourses, etc. It is possible to iden tify parts that preserve the
original forms of Chinese songs and prose-poems and parts that have been revised
and edited by the com piler. The com pilation of medical and pharmacological books
by men who had passed the civil service examinations, as in this case, could be
described as a charac teristic of Viet nam.
3. Hoàng Đôn Hòa’s Hoạt Nhân Toát Yếu and Trịnh Đôn Phác’s Hoạt Nhân Toát
Yếu Tăng Bổ
Hoàng Đôn Hòa 黄敦和 is not men tioned in the genealogy of seven teen generations
of the Hoàng clan, and so his dates are not known. But sin ce it is recorded in the
Thần phả 神譜 (Sac red Genealogy) that in the struggles with the Mạc 莫 clan in 1592
he treated fever, vomiting, and diarrhea among soldiers of the Lê dynasty’s army and
also treated its war elep hants, it is evident that he was a physician of the sixteenth
cen tury. The Hoạt nhân toát yếu 活人撮要 (Com pen dium for Saving Peop le) at trib
uted to him does in fact in clude treat ments for fever, vomiting, and diarrhea, and
also met hods for treating water buffaloes, cat tle, and horses, but because there are
virtually no elep hants in northern Viet nam, there is no men tion of the treat ment of
elep hants. It in cludes many treat ments based on readily available medicinal sub
stan ces, and it may be described as a com pen dium of the essen tial points of medical
treat ment. The treat ment of domestic animals is not found in any earlier works, and
so Hoàng Đôn Hòa could be called the fat her of Viet namese veterinarians and army
doc tors.
Trịnh Đôn Phác 鄭敦樸 (1692–1762), who produced an en larged edition of the
Hoạt nhân toát yếu, passed the physicians’ examination in 1741 and was respon sible
for looking after the em press and ot hers at the court’s Academy of Medicine. His
3-volume Hoạt nhân toát yếu tăng bổ 活人撮要増補 (Sup plement to the Com pen dium


95
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
for Saving Peop le) survives in the form of a han dcopy by the É cole française
d’Extrê me-Orient (In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2535), and its systematic format
suggests that it was copied from a prin ted edition. Vol. 1 deals with gynecology, vol.
2 with pediat rics, and vol. 3 with surgery and domestic animals, and it is by and
large writ ten in Chinese. There are quite a num ber of Viet namese medical treatises
dealing with the two subjects of gynecology and pediat rics, with surgery sometimes
being added. The works used by Trịnh Đôn Phác to sup plement the Hoạt nhân toát
yếu in clude, in addition to the Nam dược thần hiệu, the Chinese medical and phar
macological treatises Ching-yüeh ch‘üan-shu 景岳全書 (Com plete Works of Ching-
yüeh; ﬁrst pub. 1710), Shou-shih pao-yüan 壽世保元 (Lon gevity and the Preservation
of Health; 1615), I-hsüeh ju-men 醫學入門 (In troduc tion to Medicine; 1575), Chi-yin
kang-mu 濟陰綱目 (Guidelines and Details for Beneﬁting Women; ﬁrst pub. 1620),
and Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu (ﬁrst pub. 1596), and it is evident that these works were held
by the court’s Academy of Medicine. These Chinese works are, moreover, frequen tly
quoted in later Viet namese medical works and exerted a strong inﬂuen ce on
Viet namese medicine. In con tent, the Hoạt nhân toát yếu tăng bổ main ly describes
formulas arran ged by sym ptoms, the diseases for which they are in dicated, their
con stituent drugs, their doses, and how they are to be taken, and there is lit tle theoreti-
cal discussion. It also in cludes many lists of oral instruc tions, which are in dicative of
Trịnh Đôn Phác’s clinical experien ce.
The on ly ot her medical works dating from up un til the seven teenth cen tury that I
have been able to iden tify are the 5-volume Bảo sinh diên thọ toản yếu 保生延壽纂要
(Collec ted Essen tials for Preserving Life and Prolon ging Life Span) by Đào Công
Chính 陶公正, with his own preface dated 1676 (In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies,
A.3179), and the 1-volume Châm cứu thủ huyệt đồ 鍼灸取穴圖 (Diagrams for Select
ing Points in Acu-moxibustion) with a colop hon dated 1695 by Lí Công Tuấn 李公俊
(In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHv.2015).
4. Ngô Văn Tĩnh’s Vạn Phương Tập Nghiệm
Ngô Văn Tĩnh 呉文靖, anot her presen ted scholar, com piled the 8-volume Vạn
phương tập nghiệm 萬方集驗 (Collec ted Effects of a Myriad Formulas). The extant
han dcopy made by the É cole française d’Extrê me-Orient (In stitute of Hán-Nôm
Studies, A.1287/1–8) has a preface dating from when it was rep rin ted in 1762, ac-
cording to which it was “com piled by Ngô Văn Tĩnh, a presen ted scholar of the Lê
dynasty, proofread by Nguyễn Nho 阮儒, a presen ted scholar of the Lê dynasty, and
copied by Nguyễn Địch 阮迪, an en try-level licen tiate (tú tài 秀才) of the Academy
of Medicine.” It is also stated that because it was difﬁcult to obtain a con spec tus of
formulas, this collec tion was com piled by searching widely and in cludes formulas


96
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
han ded down in families throughout the coun try.
The Vạn phương tập nghiệm is writ ten en tirely in Chinese, and it con stitutes a
formulary arran ged by illness. Vols. 1–4 deal with in ternal treat ment, starting with
various illnesses such as malaria, diarrhea, food poisoning, cerebrovascular disor
ders, sum mer colds, cold-in duced disorders, inﬂuen za, and colds caught when it is
chilly. The placing of malaria, diarrhea, and food poisoning before cold-in duced
disorders could be described as a charac teristic com mon to Viet namese medical
treatises. Vol. 5 deals with surgery, vol. 6 with gynecology and pediat rics, vol. 7 with
illnesses of the head, and vol. 8 with thoracico-abdominal illnesses and illnesses of
the lower half of the body, and a distin ctive feature of the ﬁnal two volumes can be
seen in the fact that they are both divided in to three parts.
For each illness, formulas are listed by sym ptoms, but there is no theoretical
discussion of the illnesses, and sources are given at eit her the start or the end of each
sec tion. Many of the formulas have been in direc tly quoted from Chinese works such
as the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu, Wai-t‘ai mi-yao-fang 外臺祕要方 (Sec ret and Essen tial
Formulas from the Im perial Library), and Cheng-lei pen-ts‘ao 證類本草 (Veriﬁed and
Classiﬁed Pharmacopoeia), but there are also quotations from Chinese works post
dating the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu. It is worth noting that the Vạn phương tập nghiệm also
quotes from Viet namese medical and pharmacological treatises the current where
abouts of which are un known. This format of brin ging toget her on ly formulas may
have been inﬂuen ced by the Chinese P‘u-chi-fang 普濟方 (Prescrip tions for Univer
sal Relief; 1390). This work is the on ly extant Viet namese formulary com piled by
im perial order, and in this sen se too it is quite valuable.
5. Lê Hữu Trác’s [Hải Thượng Lãn Ông] Y Tông Tâm Lĩnh
Lê Hữu Trác 黎有倬 (1720–91), whose given name was Hữu Chẩn 有診, also went by
the pseudonym of Hải Thượng Lãn Ông 海上懶翁 (Old Idler of Hải Thượng). Both
his gran dfat her and fat her had been presen ted scholars. He was born in his mot her’s
hometown in Hà Tĩnh 河靜 provin ce, grew up in his fat her’s hometown in Hải
Dương 海陽 provin ce, and later returned to his mot her’s home district, where he took
the name Hải Thượng Lãn Ông and prac ticed medicine. He is therefore generally
known as Hải Thượng Lãn Ông or Lãn Ông.
As a boy, Lê Hữu Trác went with his fat her to the capital Thăng Long, where he
studied and became renowned for his excep tional talent and exten sive knowledge. At
the age of twen ty he returned to his birthplace to perform the funeral service for his
fat her and discharge his ﬁlial duties towards his mot her, and he never resumed his
studies. At the time, the coun try was in a state of up heaval because of numerous
conﬂicts, and it was also suffering from droughts and famines. Unable to decide on


97
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
how to sup port him self, Lê Hữu Trác studied yin-yang 陰陽 theory un der an eighty-
year-old teac her named Võ 武. He later joined the army, but realizing that war is of
no beneﬁt to the general populace, he returned to his mot her’s hometown after his
older brot her’s death.
But because he had many worries and had become debilitated, Lê Hữu Trác
received treat ment from Trần Độc 陳讀, who had given up studying for the civil
service examinations and had retired to become a doc tor, and he recovered after
about one year. The medical books he studied at this time in cluded the Chinese
Feng-shih chin-nang mi-lu 馮氏錦囊祕錄 (Mr. Feng’s Sec ret Records from a Brocade
Pouch), a medical en cyc lopedia in 8 parts and 50 fascic les by Feng Chao-chang 馮
兆張 and ﬁrst published in 1702, and because Lê Hữu Trác displayed a profound
un derstan ding of yin-yang theory as it ap plied to medicine, Trần Độc tran smit ted all
of his medical knowledge to him. In 1756 Lê Hữu Trác went to the capital in search
of a teac her of medicine, but unable to ﬁnd one, he returned home and con tinued
with his reading. Then, after having prac ticed medicine for a further ten-odd years,
he began writing some years prior to 1770 a work based on his own experien ces and
studies and ultimately com posed the [Hải Thượng Lãn Ông] Y tông tâm lĩnh [海上懶
翁]醫宗心領 (Essen tial Guidelines for Medicine [by the Old Idler of Hải Thượng]) in
28 parts and 66 volumes. The above biograp hical in formation is based on his own
preface to this work (ﬁg. 3), its explanatory remarks and ﬁnal volume, and ot her
sources.
The Y tông tâm lĩnh was proofread by Đường Mi Võ 唐郿武 on the basis of Lê
Hữu Trác’s own handwrit ten manuscript, etc., and was ﬁrst prin ted in 1879–85 at
Đồng Nhân 同人 tem ple in Bắc Ninh 北寧. Judging from the prefaces to each
volume, it was writ ten in the years bet ween 1770 and 1786. The woodblocks were
stored at Đồng Nhân tem ple un til the end of the Viet nam War in 1975, and some
surviving woodblocks that en ded up in the south are curren tly held by Bắc Ninh
Provin cial Museum (ﬁg. 4). The general table of con tents gives the tit le of each
volume, and their con tents are as follows:
Opening vol., “Y nghiệp thần chương” 醫業神章: describes in ter alia the aut hor’s
experien ces with medical treat ment throughout his life.
Vol. 1, “Nội kinh yếu chỉ” 内經要旨: explains the essen tial points of the Nei-ching.
Vol. 2, “Y gia quan miện” 醫家冠冕: sum marizes the main points of medicine.
Vols. 3–5, “Y hải cầu nguyên” 醫學求源: present sayings of earlier physicians with
explanations.
Vol. 6, “Huyễn tẫn phát vi” 玄牝發微: discusses con genital water and ﬁre (yin and
yang) in the kidney’s energy (shen-ch‘i 腎氣) and pills with six in gredients (liu-


Fig. 3. Y tông tâm lĩnh, aut hor’s preface (NLV, R.1077)
Fig. 4. Woodblock held by Bắc Ninh Provin cial Museum
98
MAYANAGI MAKOTO


99
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
wei-wan 六味丸) and eight in gredients (pa-wei-wan 八味丸).
Vol. 7, “Khôn hóa thái chân” 坤化採眞: discusses ac quired energy and blood (ch‘i-
hsüeh 氣血) in the spleen and stomach and formulas for tonifying the spleen.
Vol. 8, “Đạo lưu dư vận” 導流餘韻: sets forth the aut hor’s medical theories.
Vol. 9, “Vận khí bí điển” 運氣祕典: discusses the theory of circulatory phases and
seasonal inﬂuen ces (yün-ch‘i 運氣).
Vols. 10–11, “Dược phẩm vựng yếu” 藥品彙要: describe the effects of 150 im por
tant drugs.
Vols. 12–13, “Lĩnh Nam bản thảo” 嶺南本草: describe the effects of Viet namese
drugs on the basis of the Nam dược thần hiệu, etc.
Vol. 14, “Ngoại cảm thông trị” 外感通治: discusses illnesses due to external ma-
leﬁc inﬂuen ces and their treat ment.
Vols. 15–24, “Bách bệnh cơ yếu” 百病機要 (on ly vols. 17–18 published): discuss
various illnesses and their treat ment.
Vol. 25, “Y trung quan kiện” 醫中關鍵: discusses the sec rets to treating various
illnesses.
Vols. 26–27, “Phụ đạo xán nhiên” 婦道燦然: discuss gynecological disorders,
prepartum and postpartum disorders, and their treat ment.
Vol. 28, “Toạ thảo lương mô” 坐草良模: discusses obstet rics.
Vols. 29–32, “Ấu ấu tu tri” 幼幼須知: discuss pediat rics.
Vols. 34–43, “Mộng trung giác đậu” 夢中覺痘: discuss smallpox.
Vol. 44, “Ma chẩn chuẩn thằng” 麻疹準繩: discusses measles.
Vol. 45, “Tâm đắc thần phương” 心得神方: explains formulas in cluded in the
Feng-shih chin-nang mi-lu.
Vol. 46, “Hiệu phỏng tân phương” 傚倣新方: lists formulas devised by the aut hor.
Vols. 47–49, “Bách gia trân tàng” 百家珍藏: list formulas devised by renowned
Viet namese physicians, arran ged by illness.
Vols. 50–57, “Hành giản trân nhu” 行簡珍需: give drugs suitable for various
illnesses.
Vols. 58–60, “Y phương hải hội” 醫方海會 (on ly vol. 58 published): bring toget her
formulas arran ged by illness.
Vol. 61, “Y dương án” 醫陽案: gives exam ples of suc cessful treat ments.
Vol. 62, “Y âm án” 醫陰案: gives exam ples of un suc cessful treat ments.
Vol. 63, “Truyền tâm bí chỉ” 傳心祕旨 (“Châu ngọc cách ngôn” 珠玉格言): presents
sayings about the quin tessen ce of medical treat ment in general.
Vol. 64, “Vấn sách” 問策: un published.
Closing vol., “Thượng Kinh kí sự” 上京記事: in cludes an ac count of the aut hor’s
visit to Thăng Long, poems exchan ged with famous peop le, etc.


8)　Nguyễn Gia Phan 阮嘉璠 was born in Từ Liêm 慈廉 district (present-day Hanoi) in 1749.
He passed the civil service examinations at the age of twen ty-six and was ap poin ted to the post of
cen sor, overseeing ofﬁcials in Sơn Tây 山西 provin ce.
100
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
The Y tông tâm lĩnh thus con sists of 64 volumes toget her with opening and closing
volumes, making 66 volumes in total. But the extant version is missing several
volumes, and judging from the prefaces added at the time of publication it would
seem that a total of 55 volumes in 27 parts were ac tually published. It is, of course,
the most voluminous medical treatise com piled by a sin gle person in Viet nam, and
there are few similar exam ples in China, Japan, or Korea. When one also takes in to
ac count the fact that it was published about a hun dred years after the aut hor’s death,
it is questionable whet her it was ac tually com posed by Lãn Ông alone. But the
overall con tents, in cluding the aut hor’s prefaces to each volume, display a high level
of in ternal con sisten cy, and signs of the in clusion of the writings of ot her peop le can
be found on ly in vols. 12–13. The most frequen tly quoted work is the Feng-shih
chin-nang mi-lu, followed by the I-hsüeh ju-men, Wan-ping hui-ch‘un 萬病回春
(Recovery from a Myriad Diseases), Shou-shih pao-yüan, and Ching-yüeh ch‘üan-
shu, all of which are medical en cyc lopedias dating from the Ming to early Ch‘ing
period, and it is to be surmised that it was partly because of the inﬂuen ce of these
works that the Y tông tâm lĩnh was com posed.
The ac hievements of this work may be con sidered to have been threefold. First, it
presen ted a system of medicine in which Chinese medicine had been Viet namized
and clariﬁed its charac teristics. Secon dly, it dealt com prehen sively with the effects
of and formulas for Viet namese drugs from the perspec tive of Tuệ Tĩnh’s view that
Sout hern medicines should be used for treating the Viet namese, and it also provided
newly devised treat ments and formulas. Thirdly, it described not on ly suc cessful but
also un suc cessful exam ples of treat ment for the beneﬁt of future students of
medicine. This work presen ted both theories and met hods of treat ment, especially
met hods of treat ment and formulas using Sout hern drugs, and a systematic form of
Viet namese medicine was brought to com pletion. Even prior to its publication, it
was quoted in many Viet namese medical and pharmacological works, and manu
scripts of parts of it or excerpts from it also circulated. It was thus an extremely inﬂu-
en tial work, and its aut hor Lãn Ông must in deed be regarded as one of the leading
physicians in the history of Viet nam.
6. Medical Treatises by Nguyễn Gia Phan
Nguyễn Gia Phan (1749–1829),8) anot her presen ted scholar, wrote several medical
treatises, in cluding the Thai sản điều kinh phương pháp 胎産調經方法 (Met hods for


9)　Extant copies of this work also bear the tit les Thai tiền điều kinh phương pháp 胎前調經方
法, Thai tiền điều dưỡng phương pháp 胎前調養方法, Thai sản điều lí phương pháp 胎産調理方法,
and Thai sản điều dưỡng phương pháp 胎産調養方法. But these tit les are all misnomers deriving
from chap ter tit les, and the correct tit le is Thai sản điều kinh phương pháp.
101
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
Con ceiving by Regulating Menstruation), Lý âm phương pháp thông lục 理陰方法
通錄 (Com prehen sive Record of Met hods for Managing Women’s Health), Hộ nhi
phương pháp thông lục 護兒方法通錄 (Com prehen sive Record of Met hods for Pro
tec ting In fants), and Liệu dịch phương pháp toàn tập 療疫方法全集 (Com plete Col
lec tion of Met hods for Treating Epidemics).
The Trịnh 鄭 family, which wielded power in the ﬁnal years of the Lê dynasty, had
few suc cessors, and learning that the presen ted scholar Nguyễn Gia Phan came from
a family of physicians that had con tinued for three generations, they had him com
pile a book about prepartum mat ters (1777), which was then used at the im perial
court. Nguyễn Gia Phan returned home in 1786 and, adding a sec tion on postpartum
mat ters which had been missing in the work he had presen ted to the Trịnh family, he
wrote the Thai sản điều kinh phương pháp, a book on obstet rics writ ten in Chinese
(In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHv.2069).9) It in cludes an explanation of the
relation ship bet ween the fetus during the ten months of pregnan cy and the meridians
or chan nels (ching-mai 經脈), met hods for predic ting the sex of the fetus, medicines
to be used at childbirth, illustrated explanations of the fetus during the ten months of
pregnan cy, treat ment for menstrual irregularities, met hods for becoming pregnant,
sec ret instruc tions for con ceiving through sexual in tercourse, and sec ret instruc tions
for chan ging a female fetus in to a male fetus wit hin the ﬁrst three months of preg
nan cy. Each chap ter con tains a theoretical discussion and formulas, as well as ac-
counts of the aut hor’s experien ces in treating the con ditions dealt with. The works
quoted in clude, in addition to the Chinese gynecological texts Chi-yin kang-mu and
Fu-jen liang-fang 婦人良方 (Effec tive Formulas for Women), the en cyc lopedic Cheng-
chih chun-sheng 證治準繩 (Stan dards for Diagnosis and Treat ment), Ching-yüeh
ch‘üan-shu, Feng-shih chin-nang mi-lu, Shou-shih pao-yüan, and Wan-ping hui-
ch‘un, suggesting that these works were widely read at the time.
Nguyễn Gia Phan then took the sec tions on pediat rics in the Thai sản điều kinh
phương pháp and in 1813 com piled the Hộ nhi phương pháp thông lục in 4 volumes
(In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.1989/1–2, etc.), again in Chinese. He quotes theo
retical discussions and treat ments, arran ged by sym ptoms, from Chinese works on
pediat rics and medical en cyc lopedias, and it is worth noting that this work in cludes
“Western met hods of treat ment.”
In 1814, Nguyễn Gia Phan com piled the 4-volume Lý âm phương pháp thông lục
(2 vols. extant; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2853/1–2) on gynecology, also in


102
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
Chinese. Sin ce it in cludes a preface from 1788, it could be regarded as an en larged
version of the Thai sản điều kinh phương pháp, and again it con tains many quota
tions from Chinese medical works. Ac cording to the aut hor’s preface from 1814, he
also wrote the Y gia phương pháp tổng lục 醫家方法總錄 (Com plete Record of
Physicians’ Met hods), but it is not known whet her it has survived.
In 1814 Nguyễn Gia Phan also wrote the 2-volume Liệu dịch phương pháp toàn
tập on the treat ment of epidemics, again in Chinese. Ac cording to the 1816 colop hon
in the manuscript of this work (In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.1306), it is based on
the aut hor’s experien ces of treating epidemics during two major out breaks in 1789
and 1814. The aut hors of works quoted in clude Chang Ching-yüeh 張景岳, Feng
Chao-chang, Chao Hsien-k‘o 趙獻可, and Wu Mien-hsüeh 呉勉學 of the Ming, and it
is evident that their writings were widely con sulted at the time.
IV.　MEDICAL AND PHARMACOLOGICAL TREATISES OF THE NGUYỄN PERIOD
(1802–1945)
1. The System of Medical Treat ment and Traditional Medical Circles
In the capital Phú Xuân (present-day Hue) there was an Im perial Academy of
Medicine (thái y viện 太醫院) at tac hed to the court, and it was respon sible for
providing medical care for the im perial family and government ofﬁcials. The training
of court physicians at the Im perial Academy of Medicine began in 1856, but because
the lec tures provided on ly sim ple in troduc tions to in ternal medicine and surgery, the
majority of ofﬁcial physicians were selec ted from among doc tors prac ticing among
the general populace. Ofﬁcial physicians respon sible for looking after government
ofﬁcials and troops were also at tac hed to local medical ofﬁces (lương y ti 良醫司).
But there was no public health care for ordinary peop le, nor were there any training
and research facilities, and private doc tors learnt from teac hings passed down in
their families or else studied at the private schools of renowned physicians. In the
period from 1820 to 1883, the government provided medical care and medicines for
the general populace, and during epidemics ofﬁcials from the cen tral government
and court physicians were sent to the provin ces.
In the 1880s Fran ce abolished the civil service examination system in Sài Gòn
(present-day Ho Chi Minh) in the south, and from around 1910 a romanized form of
Viet namese orthograp hy devised by the French (quốc ngữ 國語) began to spread.
Thereafter, the use of mixed-script texts em ploying Chinese and chữ nôm charac ters
fell in to dec line, and as a result of the spread of education and hospitals (ﬁg. 5) based
on Western medicine by the French, traditional medical treat ment became the pre
serve of the private sec tor. However, the civil service examination system survived


Fig. 5. Viet nam’s first Western hospital (Sài Gòn, 1876)
103
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
un til 1918 in Hue in cen tral Viet nam and in Hanoi in the north, and Hán-Nôm
writing was used in to the twen tieth cen tury, as a result of which traditional medicine
has not been relegated to the private sec tor to the same extent as in the south. At
the same time, the num ber of peop le en gaged in prac ticing traditional medicine
in creased nation wide, and its spread and popularization also advan ced. It is partly for
this reason that the majority of extant works on traditional medicine and pharma
cology by Viet namese are manuscripts or prin ted books dating from the Nguyễn
period.
2. Datable Works
There are no voluminous works such as the Y tông tâm lĩnh among extant medical
and pharmacological works from the Nguyễn period. Furthermore, the majority of
works thought to have been handwrit ten sin ce the nineteenth cen tury are notebooks
and the like that record teac hings and so on tran smit ted by certain families, and on ly
a small num ber men tion the aut hor or date of com position. But there are also some
that have prefaces and so on which in form us of when they were writ ten or pub
lished. In the following, I shall therefore give a brief overview of works that I have
been able to date. For further details, referen ce should be made to two on-line


10)　http://square. umin. ac. jp/mayanagi/paper01/han nom. html (MAYANAGI Makoto, The
Bibliograp hy of the Old Medical Books in the In stitute of Han-Nom Studies); http://square. umin.
ac. jp/mayanagi/paper01/nlv. html (MAYANAGI Makoto, The Bibliograp hy of the Old Medical
Books in the National Library of Viet nam).
104
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
sources.10)
Nguyễn Hành 阮衡, Lạc sinh tâm đắc 樂生心得 (Rules for Hap py Living), 1 vol.
(aut hor’s preface dated 1802; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHb.199): medical
treatise writ ten in Chinese; also in cludes songs on the meridians writ ten in Hán-
Nôm in alternating lines of six and eight syllables.
Lê Trác Như 黎卓如, Cứu pháp tinh vi trích yếu tiện lãm 灸法精微摘要便覽 (Con
cise Com pen dium of the Essen ce of Moxibustion), 2 vols. (aut hor’s preface
dated 1805; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHv.2946): treatise on moxibustion,
writ ten in Chinese.
Ngô Thủ 呉手, Hoạt nhân bị yếu 活人備要 (Essen tials for Saving Peop le), 1 vol.
extant (aut hor’s preface dated 1809; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2798):
originally a 4-volume medical en cyc lopedia writ ten in Chinese; the general dis
cussion of diagnosis, etc., has survived.
Lê Văn Huệ 黎文惠 (?), Tổng toản y tập 總纂醫集 (Com pen dium of Medicine),
vols. 2–3 extant (1854?; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.1242): medical en cy
clopedia writ ten in Chinese; the extant manuscript ap pears to be based on a
prin ted edition.
Bùi Thúc Trinh 裴叔貞, Y học thuyết nghi 醫學説疑 (Exposition of Doubts about
Medicine), vols. 1, 3–5 & 7 extant (aut hor’s preface dated 1854; National Li-
brary of Viet nam, R.1963): medical treatise writ ten in Chinese in question-and-
an swer format (ﬁg. 6).
Bùi Thúc Trinh, Vệ sinh yếu chỉ 衞生要旨 (Main Points for Protec ting Life), 8 vols.
(colop hon dated 1866, aut hor’s preface dated 1890; National Library of Viet
nam, R.1201–04, etc.): systematic medical en cyc lopedia writ ten in Chinese;
judging from the extant manuscripts, a prin ted edition may have been published
in 1890.
Trần Đức Hinh 陳徳馨, Đậu khoa 痘科 (Smallpox), 4 vols. (aut hor’s preface dated
1869; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2949/1–2): systematic and com prehen
sive collec tion of treat ments for smallpox, writ ten in Chinese (in cluding songs
and prose-poems).
Nguyễn Hi Viên 阮希袁, Sử đồng tê thọ đậu hậu toàn thư 使童躋壽痘後全書 (En-
cyc lopedia for Recovery from In fan tile Smallpox), 1 vol. (aut hor’s preface


Fig. 6. Y học thuyết nghi, aut hor’s preface (NLV, R.1963)
105
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
dated 1880; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2273): extant version was copied
from a prin ted edition with a preface dated 1880.
Nguyễn Văn Thi 阮文詩, Tự dục bí quyết 嗣育祕訣 (Sec ret Instruc tions for Ob-
taining an Heir), 5 vols. (aut hor’s preface dated 1884; In stitute of Hán-Nôm
Studies, VHt.3/1–3): detailed treatise on obstet rics, with exam ples of how
childless prominent peop le had children.
Lê Đức Vọng 黎徳望 (?), Nhãn khoa yếu lục 眼科要錄 (Essen tials of Ophthal
mology), 1 vol. (colop hon dated 1884; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2160):
treatise on ophthalmology, writ ten in Chinese.
Nguyễn Địch 阮迪, Văn khê y thư yếu lục 雲溪醫書要錄 (Essen tials of Vân Khê’s
Medical Treatise), 2 vols. extant (preface dated 1885; In stitute of Hán-Nôm
Studies, A.2133/1–2): collec tion of medical theories and sec tions on obstet rics
and gynecology taken from the Y lý yếu lục 醫理要錄 (Essen tials of Medical
Theory) by the court physician Vân Khê 雲溪.


106
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
Aut hor un known, Bảo thai thần hiệu toàn thư giải ậm 保胎神效全書解音 (En cy
clopedia in Viet namese on Divine Efﬁcacy in Protec ting the Fetus), 1 vol. (pub.
1885; National Library of Viet nam, R.383, etc.): correct tit le is Bảo thai chủng
tử quốc ậm toản yếu 保胎種子國音纂要 (Essen tials in Viet namese Pronun ciation
for Protec ting Con cep tion and the Fetus); a treatise on obstet rics and pediat rics
writ ten in Hán-Nôm.
Aut hor un known, Kì phương diệu tuyển 奇方妙選 (Won drous Selec tion of Novel
Formulas), 4 vols. (colop hon dated 1896; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, VHv.
2950): family formulary arran ged by illness.
Aut hor un known, Vệ sinh bảo giám 衞生寶鑑 (Precious Mirror on Hygiene), 1 vol.
(pub. 1898; In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, AB.428): writ ten in Hán-Nôm, it dis
cusses hygiene in everyday life; un related to a Chinese work of the same tit le.
Hoàng Chí Y 黄志伊, Tự luân đường dược tài bị khảo 敘倫堂藥材備考 (Tự Luân
Đường’s Notes on Materia Medica), 9 vols. (colop hon dated 1899; In stitute of
Hán-Nôm Studies, A.290/1–2): pharmacopoeia which classiﬁes 520 drugs by
their effects and brieﬂy describes them.
Nguyễn Văn Thịnh 阮文盛, Công tư phổ tế linh dược 公私普濟靈藥 (Miraculous
Drugs for Universal Relief, Public and Private) (pub. 1910; In stitute of Hán-
Nôm Studies, AC.235): collec tion of formulas for illnesses in seven bran ches of
medicine, in cluding men’s health and pediat rics, said to have been sent down to
earth by order of the Jade Em peror of Taoism.
Chí Thiện Đàn 志善壇, Hoạt thế lương pháp 活世良法 (Effec tive Met hods for
Saving the World), 3 vols. (pub. 1931; National Library of Viet nam, R.1788,
etc.): collec tion of formulas said to have been im parted by a deity who had
descen ded upon a medium (ﬁg. 7).
3. The Trung Việt Dược Tính Hợp Biên by Phan Văn Thái et al.
In addition to the above works, a notable pharmacopoeia is the 16-volume Trung việt
dược tính hợp biên 中越藥性合編 (Com bined Com pilation of the Properties of Chi
nese and Viet namese Drugs) (In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies, A.2702/1–16). Ac cord
ing to the preface, “Because un til now there had been no monograph on drugs pro
duced in Viet nam, and it had been difﬁcult to ascertain their Viet namese names and
utilize them, the government ordered the court physician Phan Văn Thái and ot hers
to com pile one, and it was com pleted in 1916.”
This work lists a total of 1,655 drugs produced in China and Viet nam, classifying
them in the man ner of the Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu in to water, ﬁre, and earth. Writ ten in
suc cinct Chinese, for each drug it gives the name, its provenan ce (whet her it is
produced in China or Viet nam), alternative Chinese name(s) and Viet namese name


Fig. 7. Hoạt thế lương pháp (NLV, R.1788)
107
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
(the lat ter in chữ nôm charac ters), ap pearan ce, properties, processing met hods, and
effects, toget her with textual sources. The most frequen tly cited source is the Pen-
ts‘ao kang-mu, followed by Hải Thượng Lãn Ông, the Ch‘ing-period Pen-ts‘ao
ts‘ung-hsin 本草從新 (New Pharmacopoeia), the local gazet teer Đại Nam nhất thống
chí 大南一統志 (pub. 1910) com piled during the Nguyễn period, the Ming-period
I-hsüeh ju-men, and the Ch‘ing-period Pen-ts‘ao pei-yao 本草備要 (Essen tials of
Materia Medica). Viet namese historical works are also quoted.
In the explanatory remarks added to the sec tion on gin seng (Panax gin seng) in
vol. 15, men tion is made of gin seng produced in ot her coun tries, and Western (i. e.,
American) gin seng (Panax quin quefolius) from North America is mistaken ly said to
come from Fran ce. But it is correc tly noted that Orien tal (i. e., Japanese) gin seng
(Panax gin seng cultivar) is produced in Japan and that “ﬂower-ﬂag gin seng” (hua-
ch‘i-shen 花旗參), anot her name for American gin seng, comes from the Americas. It
is also in teresting to note that in the sec tion on tobac co (Nicotiana tabacum) in vol.
16 it is stated that it ﬁrst en tered Viet nam from Yün-nan 雲南 in China in 1660. This


11)　http://lib. nom foun dation. org/ (Digital collec tions of the Viet namese Nôm Preservation
Foun dation).
108
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
work, which also pays at ten tion to natural history, is the on ly Viet namese pharma
copoeia com piled by im perial order, and judging from its size, it was probably never
prin ted. The sole extant copy held by the In stitute of Hán-Nôm Studies is a han dcopy
made by the É cole française d’Extrê me-Orient, and because it was probably based
on the original preserved in Hue, it is valuable also for the history of Viet namese
scholarship.
4. The Ngư Tiều Vấn Đáp Nho Y Diễn Ca and Medicine in Sout hern Viet nam
Among the Viet namese medical and pharmacological works con sidered above, on ly
a small num ber, such as the Hồng Nghĩa giác tư y thư, have been tran slated and
published in modern Viet namese, and in most cases on ly the tit les and/or aut hors
have been men tioned in ot her studies. It is also un likely that there exist any photo
grap hic rep roduc tions of the originals, but curren tly works held main ly by the Na-
tional Library of Viet nam are being made digitally ac cessible.11) Furthermore, these
were all works from northern and cen tral Viet nam, especially Hanoi, the capital from
the Trần period, and Hue, the capital during the Nguyễn period. Up un til the ﬁrst half
of the Nguyễn period, sout hern Viet nam was far removed from the cen ters of politics
and culture, and few old books from the south have survived.
Following the Treaty of Saigon in 1862, on the basis of which the Nguyễn dynasty
ceded sout hern Viet nam to Fran ce, French-style medical treat ment became the ofﬁ
cial form of treat ment in sout hern Viet nam, and traditional medical treat ment became
the preserve of local physicians. In resistan ce to these moves, there was com posed
bet ween about 1870 and 1880 the Ngư tiều vấn đáp nho y diễn ca 漁樵問答儒醫演歌
(Verses of a Dialogue bet ween a Fisherman and a Woodcut ter about Con fucian
Medicine) (ﬁg. 8; pub. 1911), and it has con tinued to be rep rin ted un der the tit le Ngư
tiều vấn đáp y thuật 漁樵問答醫術 (Dialogue bet ween a Fisherman and a Woodcut ter
on the Art of Medicine), which in cludes a parallel ren dering in romanized Viet nam
ese. This work was com posed by the blind poet and Con fucian physician Nguyễn
Đình Chiểu 阮廷炤 (pseudonym: Hối Trai 晦齋; 1822–88) in mixed Hán-Nôm that
makes use of many chữ nôm charac ters, and it presents the quin tessen ce of Chinese
medical and pharmacological theories in about 3,600 verses (diễn ca 演歌) in alter
nating lines of six and eight syllables.
Because this work was writ ten in a style of Viet namese that was easy for peop le to
un derstand and popularized systematic knowledge of traditional medicine for the


Fig. 8. Ngư Tiều vấn đáp nho y diễn ca (Sout hern
In stitute of Social Scien ces Library, Ho Chi
Minh)
109
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
ﬁrst time, it is con sidered to rep resent a pin nac le in the Viet namization of Chinese
medicine. It was also the lon gest work in the history of Viet namese medicine to be
writ ten in the distin ctively Viet namese literary style known as diễn ca. It could be
said that the reason that similar works did not ap pear at the time in cen tral and
northern Viet nam was that it was in the south that traditional medical treat ment was
un der the greatest threat from French colonial medicine.
V.　THE DEVELOP MENT AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
AND PHARMACOLOGY
In the above we have examined extant medical and pharmacological works from
the Trần period down to the Nguyễn period, and through these works it is possible
to gain a glim pse of some of the develop ments and charac teristics distin ctive of
Viet nam.
The ﬁrst point to be noticed is the develop ment of a form of medicine suited to
Viet nam’s climatic con ditions, the struc ture of illnesses to which its peop le were


110
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
suscep tible, and peop le’s physical con stitutions. The fourteenth-cen tury Y học yếu
giải, the oldest extant Viet namese medical work, in cludes two newly devised formu
las for treating in fec tious fevers and chills. In dealing with acute diseases, greater
em phasis is placed on malaria, diarrhea, and food poisoning than on cerebrovascular
disorders and cold-in duced disorders, and this is a charac teristic com mon to Viet
namese medical works. In vol. 14 (“Ngoại cảm thông trị”) of the Y tông tâm lĩnh,
cold-in duced disorders are discussed toget her with Viet nam’s climatic con ditions
and the physical con stitution of its peop le, and it is deemed inap prop riate to use the
warming diap horetics ep hedra (ma-huang 麻黄 [Ep hedrae herba]) and cin namon
twigs (kuei-chih 桂枝 [Cin namomum obtusifolium (ramus)]) to treat cold-in duced
disorders because of Viet nam’s high tem peratures. This work also in cludes many
new formulas for sup plemen ting bodily ﬂuids lost through perspiration because of
Viet nam’s heat and humidity.
Related to this is the ap plication of Sout hern drugs in formulas, advocated by Tuệ
Tĩnh, and the inﬂuen ce of this can be widely seen in many medical works. That is to
say, the second charac teristic is the expan sion of the ﬁeld of Viet namese medicine
and pharmacology. The develop ment and ap plication of Sout hern drugs exten ded
to a recognition of the medicinal efﬁcacy of distin ctively Viet namese foodstuffs,
and there were born original pharmacopoeias of Viet namese drugs and foodstuffs,
culminating in the Trung việt dược tính hợp biên, com piled by im perial order. In
clinical develop ments, not on ly did there develop treat ments for malaria, warm-
tem perature diseases, and miasma, which could all be described as en demic diseases,
but there were com posed medical treatises that placed an equal im portan ce on the
treat ment of domestic animals. Further, owing to frequent warfare, military medicine
was born, while in measures taken in the im perial court to produce heirs there were
advan ces in the ﬁelds of ap hrodisiacs, sexual hygiene, gynecology, pediat rics, and
smallpox to assist in con cep tion and childcare. These formulas based on experien ce
were in cluded in the Vạn phương tập nghiệm, a com prehen sive formulary com piled
by im perial order.
Thirdly, men tion may be made of the spread of expositions of medicine in song
form, starting with Tuệ Tĩnh’s Nam dược quốc ngữ phú and Trực giải chỉ nam dược
tính phú. Medical and pharmacological works in song form ﬁrst ap peared in China
during the Yüan dynasty and circulated somewhat during the Ming, and their in-
ﬂuen ce also exten ded to some extent to Korea and Japan. But the adop tion of this
format in the greatest num ber of medical and pharmacological works is a major
charac teristic of Viet nam, and it could be said to be a reﬂec tion of the fact that
the essen tials of medicine and pharmacology were tran smit ted by recitation from
memory and oral tran smission. This format was brought to com pletion in Nguyễn


111
THE TRADITIONS AND CHARAC TERISTICS OF VIET NAMESE MEDICINE
Đình Chiểu’s Ngư Tiều vấn đáp nho y diễn ca in the form of diễn ca writ ten in
alternating lines of six and eight syllables. It is to be surmised that com mercial
publishing, which also has the fun ction of publicizing and disseminating medical
and pharmacological knowledge, did not emerge in Viet nam un til the late nineteenth
cen tury. Background fac tors in this widespread adop tion of the song form in Viet
namese medical and pharmacological works may have been this social economy and
an oral culture.
The fourth charac teristic is the fact that many of the con tem porary medical and
pharmacological works that con tinued to be copied and have survived down to the
present day were com piled by men who had passed the civil service examinations or
by men belon ging to or associated with such families. Of course, the existen ce of the
civil service examination system lies behind this, but in China and Korea, where
civil service examinations were also held, medical and pharmacological works com
piled by men who had passed these examinations were not circulated or tran smit ted
to the same extent as they were in Viet nam. This suggests a relation ship bet ween
Con fucianism and medicine peculiar to Viet nam. Con sequen tly, the Chinese medical
and pharmacological works quoted in their writings were all voluminous and ex-
pen sive works such as the 52-fascic le Pen-ts‘ao kang-mu (1596), 59-fascic le Feng-
shih chin-nang mi-lu (1702), 64-fascic le Ching-yüeh ch‘üan-shu (1710), and 44-
fascic le Cheng-chih chun-sheng (1760), and these were not works that local doc tors
could usually utilize. Even smaller works such as the 8-fascic le I-hsüeh ju-men
(1575), 8-fascic le Wan-ping hui-ch‘un (1587), and 10-fascic le Shou-shih pao-yüan
(1615) were being used in Viet nam not all that long after they had been com pleted or
had been ﬁrst published in China, and this too would have been difﬁcult for local
prac titioners to do. It was probably partly because of such fac tors that medical works
by men who had passed the civil service examinations con tinued to be tran smit ted
and quoted.
Fifthly, men tion must be made of the ap pearan ce of the [Hải thượng lãn ông] Y
tông tâm lĩnh in 28 books and 66 volumes. Not on ly can all of the charac teristics of
Viet namese medicine and pharmacology noted above be found in this work, but they
have been systematically and logically organized, and it is no exaggeration to say
that a system en dowed with the distin ctive features of Viet namese medicine was
given con crete expression in this work. This great ac hievement is com parable to that
of Manase Dōsan 曲直瀬道三 (1507–94) in Japan and Hŏ Chun 許浚 (1539–1615) in
Korea, and for this reason Hải Thượng Lãn Ông (Lê Hữu Trác) is regarded as the
greatest physician in the history of Viet nam. But because of its voluminousness and
the fact that it is writ ten in Chinese, this work is not used at all in present-day
Viet nam.


Fig. 9. Tem ple of Medicine (Hanoi), where Lãn Ông and ot hers are enshrined.12)
12)
This Tem ple of Medicine (Y Miếu 醫廟) was established in 1774 by Trịnh Đình Ngoạn 鄭
廷玩, head of the Im perial Academy of Medicine, for the purpose of venerating renowned
Viet namese physicians such as Tuệ Tĩnh and Hải Thượng Lãn Ông. It was renovated and exten ded
in 1834, but was then aban doned during the period of French rule. In 2000 it was rebuilt and
restored by the municipal aut horities of Hanoi, and sin ce then a memorial service has been held
an nually on Traditional Medicine Day (15th day of the ﬁrst month of the lunar calen dar) by peop le
in volved in medicine. It is in teresting to note that the names inscribed on the pillars―Shou-shih
壽世 and Ching-yüeh 景岳 on the right and Hui-ch‘un 回春 and Tan-hsi 丹溪 on the left―are the
names of Chinese medical works and physicians that had an inﬂuen ce on Viet namese medicine.
112
MAYANAGI MAKOTO
Further, because of the in troduc tion by the government in Hanoi of con tem porary
Chinese medicine in modern Viet namese tran slation sin ce 1955, medicine in present-
day Viet nam, with the excep tion of research in to Viet nam’s own medicines, is far
removed from the old medical and pharmacological works that record Viet nam’s
own experien tial knowledge. It is to be hoped that in the future the diversity of tra
ditional Viet namese medicine and pharmacology will be given greater prominen ce.