Vi Herb QA: A Robust QA Model for Viet namese Traditional Herbal
Medicine
Quyen Truong1,2, Long Nguyen1,2*, Dien Dinh1,2
1Faculty of In formation Tec hnology, University of Scien ce, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet nam
2Viet nam National University, Ho Chi Minh City, Viet nam
quyen. uit@gmail. com, {nhblong,ddien}@fit. hcmus. edu. vn
Abstract
This research in troduces Vi Herb QA 1, a Viet-
namese Traditional Herbal Medicine (VTHM)
question-an swering model. However, the Viet-
namese Traditional Herbal Medicine QA
dataset is curren tly unavailable, so we have
built a dataset of 208,203 question-an swer pairs
generated by Large Lan guage Models (LLMs).
To en sure quality, we evaluate these pairs us-
ing various evaluation met rics. The Vi Herb QA
model con sists of two stages: pre-training and
fine-tuning. We pre-train the Vi T5 model on the
dataset in the pre-training phase for the Open-
Book QA task. Then, in the fine-tuning phase,
this pre-trained model is used for the Close-
Book QA task. The goal of this ap proach is
to enable the model to have a com prehen sive
un derstan ding of VTHM. We have con duc ted
exten sive evaluations com paring it with cur-
rent Viet namese QA systems and state-of-the-
art LLMs and found that it out performs them
in terms of performan ce in dicators, such as
BERTScore alone ac hieved more than 80%. In
com parison, ot her models un derperformed on
the Vi Herb QA dataset, demonstrating its poten-
tial usefulness in Viet namese herbal medicine
research. We also fine-tuned LLama3.1-8B on
our dataset and found that it out performed the
ot her LLMs evaluated in this study.
1
In troduc tion
Viet namese Traditional Herbal Medicine (VTHM)
is a long-stan ding tradition with a rich history of
medical knowledge. Even though modern medicine
has taken over most parts of the world, traditional
medicine remains ap plicable, which shows how
valuable it is in terms of research fin dings and
prac tical ap plications in medicine. Nevertheless,
the lack or nonexisten ce of specialized artificial
in telligen ce tools like question-an swering systems
*Correspon ding aut hor.
1Code
availability:
https://git hub. com/queen ley/
Vi Herb QA
limits ac cess to useful herbal in formation necessary
for both research and ap plication.
Large lan guage models (LLMs) and natural lan-
guage processing (NLP) have advan ced great ly in
recent times. However, these tec hnologies need to
be customized to fit traditional medicine, particu-
larly for less com mon lan guages. There are many
question-an swering (QA) systems for En glish, but
they are still rare in Viet namese, especially in the
traditional medicine field. This highlights the sig-
nificant poten tial for im proving NLP ap plications
in this crucial field.
Some breakthroughs have been realized in
question-an swering systems construc tion, in clud-
ing in open domains and specific domains like
medicine. Models such as Dr QA (Chen et al.,
2017), United QA (Cheng et al., 2021) and Uni K-
QA (Oguz et al., 2022), among ot hers, are cate-
gorized un der open-domain QA because they pro-
vide an swers to general questions about different
topics while Bio Med GPT (Luo et al., 2023) and
MEDIT RON (Chen et al., 2023) fall un der medi-
cal domain sin ce they are designed specifically to
address issues related to health care, using En glish
lan guage. Med Chat ZH (Tan et al., 2023) is unique
in its own way because it rep resents traditional Chi-
nese medicine through an LLM fine-tuning met hod
based on a dataset derived around an cient Chinese
treat ments, whereas the Viet namese Vi Health QA
dataset is used in creating SPBERTQA (Nguyen
et al., 2022) in Viet namese medicine field.
Most of these advan cements focus on En glish
sources, with few addressing ot her lan guages, par-
ticularly Viet namese. This means that there is a
need to develop specialized QA systems for Viet-
namese, and in this work, we will develop Vi Her-
b QA, a question-an swering model for the VTHM
field.
Vi Herb QA is a robust question-an swering model
designed to bridge modern tec hnology and tradi-
tional knowledge in Viet namese herbal medicine.


Our research tac kles two main problems, which
in clude the lack of a VTHM QA dataset and the
need for an operational model that can un derstand
VTHM knowledge. The aim of Vi Herb QA is to
overcome these challen ges by em ploying the latest
tec hniques that are ap plicable wit hin VTHM.
The develop ment process of Vi Herb QA in volves
several steps out lined below:
1. Dataset Creation: Sin ce no existing VTHM
QA dataset has been discovered, we created a new
one con sisting of 208,203 question-an swer pairs
using advan ced lan guage models such as GPT-3.5,
GPT-4o-mini, Gemini Flash, and Gemini Pro be-
cause they have high-performan ce levels and they
also sup port multip le lan guages.
2. Dataset Evaluation: We used evaluation met-
rics like Seman tic Similarity, BLEU (Papineni
et al., 2002), and Rouge (Lin, 2004) to validate
the dataset’s ap plicability.
3. Model Develop ment: There are two stages
when developing Vi Herb QA: a) Pre-training: We
use Vi T5 (Phan et al., 2022a) to train the Open-
Book QA task using our own dataset with the ex-
pec tation that the model can learn com prehen sive
VTHM knowledge through con texts in the training
process. b) Fine-tuning: This stage en tails adap ting
the pre-trained model towards the Close-Book QA
task to enable it to give ac curate respon ses.
4. Performan ce Evaluation: To evaluate Vi Her-
b QA’s performan ce in an swering VTHM-related
questions, we com pared it against ot her Viet namese
QA models and state-of-the-art LLMs using BLEU
(Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE (Lin, 2004), and
BERT-SCORE (Zhang et al., 2019).
This research creates a more robust VTHM
model than previous QA systems. The idea be-
hind this ap proach is to utilize con tem porary natu-
ral lan guage processing tec hniques with an un der-
researched lan guage to build a stron ger base for fu-
ture question-an swering for unique domains. With
Vi Herb QA, we hope to broaden awareness and un-
derstan ding surroun ding VTHMs among scholars,
prac titioners, and in terested in dividuals.
2
Related works
Over the past few years, we have seen tremen-
dous advan cements in question-an swering systems,
largely due to progress in natural lan guage process-
ing (NLP) and Large Lan guage Models (LLMs).
Different domains have received various con tribu-
tions, but traditional medicine needs to be explored.
Advan cements in large lan guage models (LLMs)
and effec tive pre-training tec hniques have led to
the rise in using QA models. BERT (Devlin et al.,
2018), XLNet (Yang et al., 2019), and T5 (Raffel
et al., 2020) are exam ples of such models that were
tested on benchmark datasets. These models are
trained on general text collec tions and then fine-
tuned on specific QA datasets to boost their perfor-
man ce in different QA tasks. For our work, we use
Vi T5 (Phan et al., 2022b), which is a Viet namese-
adap ted version of T5.
Though NLP has ac hieved significant milestones
in En glish, Viet namese remains un der-studied. Re-
searchers face challen ges such as in sufficient an-
notated resources and com plex lin guistic features
exhibited by this lan guage. Despite this, there have
been efforts to develop Viet namese pre-trained lan-
guage models, in cluding Pho BERT (Nguyen and
Tuan Nguyen, 2020), Bart Pho (Tran et al., 2021),
Vi T5 (Phan et al., 2022b), Pho GPT (Nguyen et al.,
2023), or multilin gual ones like XLM-R (Con-
neau et al., 2019) and m BERT (Pires et al., 2019)
which have shown promising results for less com-
mon lan guage NLP tasks. Therefore, this project
con tributes to Viet namese NLP through the in tro-
duc tion of a new VTHM QA dataset as well as a
robust QA model tailored specifically for this area.
The in volvement of AI in healthcare is grow-
ing at an un preceden ted pace with a focus on drug
discovery, disease diagnosis, personal health care,
and ot hers (Ching et al., 2018). Nevertheless, tra-
ditional medicine is also begin ning to find its way
in to AI systems despite being in nascent stages (Wu
et al., 2022); some in stan ces where mac hine learn-
ing has been em ployed in clude predic ting Chinese
medicinal herb com ponents (Han et al., 2018) and
iden tification of possible drug-herbs in terac tions
(Tatonet ti et al., 2012). However, more research is
needed to create AI-powered question-an swering
systems for traditional medicine like Viet namese
herbal medicine. This paper fills that void by pre-
sen ting Vi Herb QA, a specialized QA model that
aims to provide necessary VTHM knowledge ac-
cess and com prehen sion.
By developing a specific question-an swering
model on VTHM, we can com bine In digenous Tra-
ditional Medicine knowledge with state-of-the-art
natural lan guage processing tec hniques. We ad-
dress the absen ce of a dedicated VTHM QA dataset
by creating one using LLMs with advan ced prompt-
ing met hods and rigorous evaluation procedures.
Furthermore, we demonstrate how powerful Viet-


namese lan guage models can be adap ted to do-
mains such as VTHM through pre-training and
fine-tuning strategies.
3
Dataset
The Vi Herb QA dataset is a vast and in tricate re-
source that has been designed to create and evalu-
ate QA systems focused on VTHM. It con sists of
208,203 sam ples com posed of various large lan-
guage models (LLMs) like GPT4o-mini, Gemini-
Pro, Gemini-Flash, and GPT-3.5. These sam ples
are com posed of question-and-an swer pairs that
have been generated by LLMs from herbal artic les
to en sure a broad coverage of VTHM themes. To
assess the quality and usability of the dataset, we
use BLEU (Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE (Lin,
2004) as well as seman tic similarity at word level
met rics.
3.1
Generation
Gemini-Flash, Gemini-Pro, and GPT-3.5 generate
the Vi Herb QA’s dataset by drawing in formation
from artic les about traditional medicinal herbs and
formulating question-an swer pairs as illustrated in
Figure 1.
1. Artic le Crawling and Pre-processing: We col-
lec ted 745 herbal artic les from You Med 2, which is
a reliable source that offers com prehen sive medical
knowledge in Viet nam. These artic les un dergo a
thorough pre-processing procedure such as clean-
ing of data, normalization, extrac tion of useful
herbal in formation such as tit le (herb’s name), de-
scrip tion, chemical com position, use, ap plication
met hods, researches carried out on it, taboo ac tions
and remedies to make sure that just relevant data
goes to CSV format. It provides a firm foun dation
for generating the question-an swer pairs.
2. Question Generation: The prep rocessed data
for each herb’s artic le falls in to two main cate-
gories: the en tire con tent and on ly the herbal pre-
scrip tions con tent. The LLMs, in cluding Gemini-
Flash, Gemini-Pro, and GPT-3.5, use the en tire
con tent to create 20 questions. This com prehen-
sive ap proach allows the LLMs to syn thesize all
the knowledge in the artic le, resulting in com pre-
hen sive questions. For the con text of medicinal
remedies, an additional five questions are gener-
ated by LLMs based on the con tent of the provided
herbal prescrip tions. When using LLMs, we ap-
2https://youmed. vn/tin-tuc/y-hoc-co-truyen/
duoc-lieu/
ply unique prom pting tec hniques like Zero-Shot
and Few-Shot. We use multip le tem perature val-
ues to create more diversity from begin ner to ad-
van ced. Questions are created in this man ner and
then reviewed to eliminate any redun dant charac-
ters that may exist before saving the text file format
with each question located on 1 line of the file,
facilitating the creation of an swers in the next step
is con venient. The prompt tem plate used for this
Question Generation step is provided in Table 1.
In this step, we use Few Shot prompt tec hniques
with two prompt versions: one for the en tire con tent
and one for the prescrip tion con tent. In the prompt
tem plate, {doc} rep resents the knowledge con tent
while {herb} denotes the herb’s name. The sum
of tokens for this step is ap proximately 2500 for
each query. An exam ple of the out put is shown in
Figure 3 in Ap pen dix A when the en tire con tent is
fed in to LLMs, and anot her exam ple is displayed in
Figure 5 in Ap pen dix A when the herbal prescrip-
tions con tent is used.
3. An swer Generation: We have generated an-
swers correspon ding to our prepared questions
by feeding in formation from herbal artic les in to
LLMs. Each question is stron gly lin ked to its cor-
respon ding artic le con tent, en suring that the re-
spon ses are ac curate and meanin gful. In addition
to an swering generation, we prompt LLMs to pro-
duce the relevant con text derived from the origi-
nal artic le; the con text should be one of the sec-
tions or subsec tions in the artic le, sup porting the
Open-Book model training stage. Like in the above
stage, a thorough check is performed after gener-
ating questions using LLMs. The criteria met to
en sure question-an swer pairs are in cluded in Vi-
Herb QA’s training dataset in clude: must be Viet-
namese, must not con tain meanin gless charac ters,
and the an swer, question, and con text must re-
late professionally with each ot her. Therefore, we
have em ployed well-known met rics such as BLEU
(Papineni et al., 2002), ROUGE (Lin, 2004), and
Seman tic-Similarity, among ot hers, for evaluation
purposes, which assured us about the quality of
the Vi Herb QA dataset. Please refer to Figure 6 in
Ap pen dix A for the prompt tem plate in this An swer
Generation step. Figure 8 depicts the out put of this
step, with questions created from the en tire artic le
con tent as in put. In con trast, Figure 10 shows the
out put with in put con sisting of questions related to
traditional medicine remedies. We use Viet namese
to design the prompt for this step in stead of En glish
because this is essen tial; an swers from LLMs need


Figure 1: Vi Herb QA’s dataset creation pipeline has three stages, in cluding (1) artic le crawling and pre-processing,
(2) question generation, and (3) an swer generation.
Prompt tem plate for the en tire con tent
Prompt tem plate the herbal prescrip tions con tent
As a student, please generate 20 Viet namese questions
naturally and generally about <{herb}>, which is a medic-
inal herb in Viet namese Traditional Medicine using this
knowledge: “{docs}”
As a patient, please generate 5 Viet namese questions nat-
urally and generally about orien tal medicine remedies,
specifically, medicinal herbs used in Viet namese Tradi-
tional Medicine. The generated questions should not con-
tain the proper names of any specific herbs, using this
knowledge: “{docs}”
Table 1: The prompt tem plate for the Question Generation step.
Min word count
Max word count
Question
4
95
An swer
1
743
Con text
10
2720
Table 2: Statistics on the num ber of words in questions,
an swers, and con texts.
to be ac curate and highly prac tical based on the
con text con tent provided. Suitable for real situa-
tions. For that reason, with the desire for LLMs
to be able to read, un derstand, and extract in for-
mation from Viet namese medicinal texts correc tly,
we use prompts in Viet namese to have lan guage
uniformity to avoid con fusion bet ween lan guages
in providing an swers to LLMs. The sum tokens for
this step are almost 6000 tokens for each query.
We perform statistical analysis steps before we
evaluate the dataset. These steps give an overview
of the lan guage in the dataset. The data set spans
various lan guage levels as illustrated in Table 2
ran ging from elemen tary to most proficient. This
diversity is crucial sin ce it makes the dataset re-
sem ble real-life set tings, thus making post-trained
models more realistic.
This en sures that essen tial traditional medicine
terminology is preserved in the generated dataset.
We do this by visualizing the frequen cy of nouns
in the initial artic les and wit hin the dataset post-
generation. Figure 2 illustrates that the dataset
suc cessfully main tains critical terms from the tra-
ditional medicine field, such as herb (cây thuốc),
medicinal herb (dược liệu), medicinal taste (vị
thuốc), traditional medicine (y học cổ truyền), and
doc tor (bác sĩ).
3.2
Evaluation
Sin ce we generated this dataset using LLMs, there
is no gold an swer to evaluate. Therefore, we pro-
vide anot her suitable evaluation met hod based on
the word similarity bet ween the generated dataset
and the in put artic les. We can use this met hod to
evaluate various datasets.
Our evaluation process begins with using the
Pyvi library 3, a robust tool that at tac hes a Pos Tag
for Viet namese to each tokenizer found in artic les,
generated questions and generated an swers. We
then meticulously focus our evaluation on nouns,
verbs, and adjec tives. These keyword types demon-
strate the ac curacy of the generated dataset in
con taining relevant traditional medical knowledge,
3https://git hub. com/trungtv/pyvi


Figure 2: Visualization of Word Cloud in cluding (a) Word Cloud of Artic les from Youmed, (b) Word Cloud of
Questions generated by LLMs, and (c) Word Cloud of An swers generated by LLMs.
making them the most suitable for our evaluation.
We evaluate the generated questions and an swers
in dividually and then com pute the weighted aver-
age of the questions and an swers.
We use BLEU, ROUGE, and Seman tic Simi-
larity to calculate the similarity bet ween artic les
and the generated dataset by measuring word-level
similarity with nouns (n), verbs (v), and adjec tives
(adj). Seman tic Similarity is calculated by using the
Fast Text library (Joulin et al., 2016) for Viet namese
4 to get em bedding of each word, then using the
cosine similarity measure to calculate similarity.
Let M be the met ric used for calculation (M is
one of the three men tioned met rics). Mqa is the
evaluation result of M for the Vi Herb QA’s dataset,
which is com puted as the formula 1, in that, Mn,
Mv, and Madj are the similarity measures of nouns,
verbs, and adjec tives.
2 × Mn + Mv + Madj
4
(1)
We assign a higher weight to nouns than verbs
and adjec tives because, in terms of lan guage, the
similarity of nouns in this field can prove the ex-
pert similarity to specialized words like traditional
medicine, doc tors, and herbalists. Based on the
evaluation met hod we have provided, the results
shown in Table 3 show a high level of similarity in
both vocabulary and seman tics bet ween artic les and
Vi Herb QA’s dataset when reac hing BLEU 60.26,
ROUGE 55.82, and Seman tic Similarity 99.58.
After thoroughly cleaning, testing, and evalu-
ating, the Vi Herb QA dataset has been partitioned
in to three subsets: training, validation, and testing,
4https://huggin gface. co/facebook/
fasttext-vi-vec tors
BLEU
ROUGE
Seman tic Similarity
60.26
55.82
99.58
Table 3: Vi Herb QA’s dataset evaluation on three met-
rics, in cluding BLEU, ROUGE, and Seman tic Similar-
ity.
Training
Validation
Testing
145,742
56,214
6,247
Table 4: The num ber of question-an swer pairs in each
training, validation, and testing set of the Vi Herb QA
dataset.
with a distribution ratio of 7:2:1. Table 4 presents
each subset’s correspon ding num ber of question-
an swer pairs. Table 5 illustrates some sam ples of
the Vi Herb QA dataset.
4
Experiments
In our research, we develop a novel two-phase ap-
proach to training QA models. The first phase,
which we call the “Open Book” phase, takes ad-
van tage of the model’s ability to ret rieve relevant
in formation from a given con text. This simulates
the situation of a student con sulting referen ce ma-
terials during an exam.
The subsequent stage would be what we refer
to as the “Closed Book” phase. At this point, the
model is taught to give an swers based on its own
knowledge obtained from the earlier phase and
wit hout any con textual in formation. This phase
mimics the ret rieval of previously learned material
in the form of a closed-book exam.
This two-stage ap proach has been particularly
suc cessful in an swering the specific problems of


Herb
Question
An swer
Con text
Kim ngân:
Vị thuốc
quý với công
dụng bất ngờ
(Kim ngân:
Avaluable
herb
with
surprising
effects)
Bác sĩ ơi, có phương pháp
nào trong y học cổ truyền
giúp giảm triệu chứng sốt
cảm và mụn nhọt không?
(Doc tor, is there any tra-
ditional medicine met hod
that helps reduce cold
sym ptoms and ac ne?)
Bài thuốc Ngân kiều tán chứa Kim ngân hoa
và Liên kiều có thể được sử dụng để chữa
mụn nhọt và sốt cảm. Cách dùng là mỗi vị
40g Kim ngân hoa và Liên kiều, cùng với các
vị khác như Kinh giới tuệ, Cát cánh, Đạm đậu
sị, Bạc hà, Ngưu bàng tử, và Đạm trúc diệp,
tất cả sấy khô tán bột, có thể làm thành viên
và uống 1 – 2 lần mỗi ngày, mỗi lần 12g bột.
(The “Ngân kiều tán” formula con taining
Kim ngân hoa (Honeysuc kle) and Liên kiều
(Forsyt hia) can be used to treat ac ne and cold
sym ptoms. The met hod: use 40g of each Kim
ngân hoa and Liên kiều, along with ot her
herbs like Kinh giới tuệ, Cát cánh, Đạm đậu
sị, Bạc hà, Ngưu bàng tử, and Đạm trúc diệp,
all dried and powdered. It can be made in to
pills, and take 1-2 times daily, with each dose
being 12g of powder.)
Bài thuốc Ngân kiều tán Thường dùng chữa
mụn nhọt, sốt cảm: Kim ngân hoa và Liên
kiều mỗi vị40g; Kinh giới tuệ16g; Cát cánh
24g; Đạm đậu sị20g; Bạc hà và Ngưu bàng
tử mỗi vị24g; Đạm trúc diệp 15g. Tất cả sấy
khô tán bột. Có thể làm thành viên. Uống 1
– 2 lần mỗi ngày, mỗi lần 12g bột.... (The
“Ngân kiều tán” formula is com mon ly used
to treat ac ne and colds: Kim ngân hoa and
Liên kiều, 40g each; Kinh giới tuệ16g; Cát
cánh 24g; Đạm đậu sị20g; Bạc hà and Ngưu
bàng tử, 24g each; Đạm trúc diệp 15g. All
dried and powdered. Can be made in to pills.
Take 1-2 times daily, 12g per dose...)
Mộc thông:
Vị thuốc có
công
dụng
lợi tiểu (Mộc
thông:
An herb
with
diuretic
properties.)
Trong trường hợp nào cần
phải kiêng kị khi sử dụng
Mộc thông và những tác
động tiêu cực có thể xảy
ra? (In what cases should
Mộc thông be avoided,
and what negative effects
can oc cur?)
Người suy nhược, hoạt tinh, mệt mỏi, không
có thấp nhiệt bên trong thì cấm dùng. Phụ nữ
có thai và những người tiểu tiện quá nhiều
không được dùng. (Those who are weak, ex-
perien cing spermatorrhea, fatigue, or do not
have in ternal damp-heat should avoid using
it. Pregnant women and those who urinate
excessively should not use it.)
Người suy nhược, hoạt tinh, mệt mỏi, không
có thấp nhiệt bên trong thì cấm dùng. Phụ nữ
có thai và những người tiểu tiện quá nhiều
không được dùng. Mộc thông có công dụng
lợi tiểu tiện, trị bí tiểu, tiểu gắt buốt, ngoài ra
còn bị bế kinh. Những thông tin trên đây chỉ
mang tính chất tham khảo. Tốt nhất, bạn cần
tham khảo ý kiến bác sĩ trước khi sử dụng
các vị thuốc!... (Those who are weak, expe-
rien cing spermatorrhea, fatigue, or do not
have in ternal damp-heat should avoid using
it. Pregnant women and those who urinate
excessively should not use it. Mộc thông has
diuretic properties, treating urinary reten tion
and pain ful urination, and can also address
amenorrhea. The in formation provided here
is for referen ce on ly. It is best to con sult a
doc tor before using any herbal medicines!...)
Vông
nem:
Thứ lá cây
chữa
mất ngủ hiệu quả
(Vông nem:
A leaf that
effec tively
treats
in-
som nia)
Vông nem có tác dụng an
thần như thế nào? (How
does Vông nem have a
sedative effect?)
Vông nem có tác dụng an thần nhờ vào các
thành phần hóa học có trong lá, giúp làm
dịu hệ thần kinh. (Vông nem has a sedative
effect thanks to the chemical com ponents in
its leaves, which help to calm the nervous
system.)
Lá Vông nem có tác dụng ức chế hệ thần
kinh trung ương, làm yên tĩnh, gây ngủ, hạ
nhiệt, hạ huyết áp...(Vông nem leaves have
effects that in hibit the cen tral nervous system,
in ducing calmness, sleep, reducing fever, and
lowering blood pressure...)
Table 5: Some sam ples of Vi Herb QA dataset.
VTHM. With this ap proach, our model allows high
and com plex com prehen sion of VTHM while being
able to give exact and trusted feedback wit hout any
con text.
4.1
Model
The develop ment of Vi Herb QA begins with pre-
training the Vi T5 model (Phan et al., 2022a) for
the Open-Book task using the construc ted dataset.
Preparing the model to an swer questions wit hin
the con text of the Open-Book task will enable ex-
haustive learning of VTHM’s knowledge from the
provided con texts. Given that VTHM necessitates
high exac tness and trustworthiness, the Open-Book
pre-trained model will en han ce the capability to
sup ply more ac curate an swers for the Close-Book
task in the subsequent step.
Upon reac hing con vergen ce in training with the
Open-Book task, we will em ploy that model to
fine-tune for the Close-Book task. We leverage a
VTHM knowledge model for fine-tuning, assur-
ing Vi Herb QA delivers more exact, experien ced
an swers wit hout needing the con text for this field.
We use Vi T5 (Phan et al., 2022a) to take advan-
tage of the architec ture’s en coding and decoding
capabilities and the model’s ability to un derstand
Viet namese to serve as a suitable basis for training
Vi Herb QA, a QA model serving the Viet namese


BLEU
Rouge1
Rouge2
Rouge L
Rouge Lsum
Bert Score (P)
Bert Score (R)
Bert Score (F1)
Large Lan guage Models
GPT3.5
6.19
31.28
17.62
23.40
24.99
66.13
74.34
69.93
Geminiflash
3.42
22.41
12.79
17.19
19.14
60.37
71.92
65.56
Llama3.1-8B
6.24
31.32
15.59
22.51
22.81
64.27
71.42
67.48
Viet namese Tran sformer Models
Vi T5base
4.77
24.17
11.35
19.11
19.15
60.54
60.81
60.58
Vi T5large
0.51
2.43
0.48
2.28
2.28
38.91
32.99
35.66
Bart Phobase
14.26
49.35
29.64
38.30
38.37
77.03
70.28
73.43
Bart Pho
14.15
49.26
29.46
38.19
38.27
77.00
70.28
73.42
Vi Herb QA (our)
Open Bookbase
31.72
59.90
47.74
52.84
52.84
85.57
77.78
81.36
Open Booklarge
33.00
60.47
49.08
53.83
53.85
86.14
78.24
81.87
Close Bookbase
31.17
59.44
46.98
52.19
52.21
85.22
77.60
81.11
Close Booklarge
32.43
60.01
48.30
53.20
53.21
85.78
78.06
81.62
Llama3.1-8Bft
8.80
37.54
20.41
26.70
27.53
65.11
74.97
69.38
Table 6: Evaluation of Vi Herb QA com pared to ot her models based on BLEU, Rouge, and Bert Score met rics.
Traditional Herb Medicine field.
We em ploy RTX 3090 - 24GB VRAM to train
Vi Herb QA on Vi T5-base and Vi T5-large in stan ces.
The models un dergo five epochs of training with a
batch size of four for Vi T5-base and two for Vi T5-
large during both the Open-Book and Close-Book
phases. We use the Adam op timizer with a learning
rate set to 1e-5. For Vi T5-base, the Question Max
Length and An swer Max Length are 512 and 1024,
respec tively, while for Vi T5-large, they are 256 and
512.
4.2
Fine-tuning Llama3.1-8B
We have fine-tuned the Llama3.1-8B, one of the
recent modern LLM models, through two steps:
pre-training and fine-tuning. During the first stage,
the model is pre-trained on the en tire text from the
artic les about VTHM. This step is essen tial for the
model to grasp the knowledge of VTHM before
moving on to the second stage, which is fine-tuning
the model for the QA task. The Lo RA tec hnique is
used for training in both stages. The epochs for the
first stage are 15, and the second stage is 2. Ac cord-
ing to Table 6, after fine-tuning the VTHM dataset,
Llama3.1-8B out performs the original Llama3.1-
8B and the Llama3.1 versions with more exten sive
parameters. However, com pared to the model built
based on the Vi T5 model, the results of Llama3.1-
8B still need im provement. This suggests that using
a specialized model for Viet namese would be more
effec tive than a multilan guage LLM.
4.3
Result
We use the test set of the Vi Herb QA dataset to
evaluate the Vi Herb QA model in both the open-
book and close-book stages. We also evaluated
the model, which is fine-tuned Llama3.1-8B on
our dataset, and com pared it with the original
Llama3.1-8B. Additionally, we assess two LLMs,
GPT3.5 and Gemini Flash, to address con cerns
about the capability of today’s LLMs to provide
ac curate an swers wit hin almost all domains. Fur-
thermore, we exhaustively con sider the Vi Herb QA
model com pared to strong Viet namese tran sformer
models such as Vi T5 (Phan et al., 2022a) and Bart-
Pho (Tran et al., 2021).
The results presen ted in Table 6 demonstrate the
excep tional lin guistic and seman tic capabilities of
the Vi Herb QA model in the VTHM domain, as evi-
den ced by met rics such as BLEU, ROUGE (in clud-
ing Rouge1, Rouge2, Rouge L, and Rouge LSum),
and Bert Score (in cluding Bert Score Precision (P),
Bert Score Recall (R), and Bert Score F1) for Viet-
namese, with Bert Score values greater than 80%
for both the base and large versions, the Vi Herb QA
model shows very high seman tic ac curacy. More-
over, BLEU values exceeding 30% and ROUGE
values surpassing 50% un derscore Vi Herb QA’s di-
verse lin guistic abilities. Furthermore, when fine-
tuning the Llama3.1-8B in our dataset, the results
are significan tly bet ter than the original LLM, even
out performing ot her LLMs in almost all met rics.
Refer to Table 7 for some respon ses from the
Vi Herb QA model from the Vi Herb QA test dataset.
The Question column in this table presents the in put
question fed in to the model; the Gold An swer is
the an swer of the test dataset, and the Predic ted
An swer is the rep ly of the Vi Herb QA model.
Vi T5 and Bart Pho are two tran sformer mod-
els that were powerfully developed for Viet namese


Question
Gold An swer
Predic ted An swer
Thời gian đắp thuốc từ lá bàng tươi lên
vùng da bị bệnh là bao lâu? (How long
should the poultice made from fresh
leaves be ap plied to the affec ted area?)
Thời gian đắp thuốc từ lá bàng tươi
lên vùng da bị bệnh là 15 phút. (The
poultice made from fresh leaves should
be ap plied to the affec ted area for 15
minutes.)
Thời gian đắp thuốc từ lá bàng tươi
lên vùng da bị bệnh là 15 phút. (The
poultice made from fresh leaves should
be ap plied to the affec ted area for 15
minutes.)
Mộc thông có công dụng chính nào?
(What are the main uses of Mộc
thông?)
Mộc thông có tác dụng lợi tiểu tiện,
thông huyết mạch. (Mộc thông has di-
uretic properties, treating urinary re-
ten tion, and regulating blood circula-
tion.)
Mộc thông có tác dụng lợi tiểu tiện,
thông huyết mạch. (Mộc thông has di-
uretic properties, treating urinary re-
ten tion, and regulating blood circula-
tion.)
Cách sử dụng Bấc đèn để chữa tim hồi
hộp và miệng khát như thế nào? (How
is Bấc đèn used to treat shortness of
breath and dry mouth?)
Bấc 4 g, Lá tre, Mạch môn mỗi vị12 g,
sắc uống. (Bấc 4g, Bam boo leaves, and
Mạch môn 12g each, to be decoc ted
in to a drink.)
Bấc 4 g, Lá tre, Mạch môn mỗi vị12 g,
sắc uống. (Bấc 4g, Bam boo leaves, and
Mạch môn 12g each, to be decoc ted
in to a drink.)
Tinh dầu phong lữ có đặc tính gì có lợi
cho da nhờn? (Does Phong lữ(Gera-
nium) oil have any benefits for oily
skin?)
Với đặc tính kiềm dầu, tinh dầu phong
lữ có thể giúp cân bằng lượng dầu
trên da. (With its astrin gent proper-
ties, Phong lữoil can help balan ce the
skin’s oil levels.)
Với đặc tính kiềm dầu, tinh dầu phong
lữ có thể giúp cân bằng lượng dầu
trên da. (With its astrin gent proper-
ties, Phong lữoil can help balan ce the
skin’s oil levels.)
Các tác dụng phụ có thể gặp khi sử
dụng thần xạ là gì? (What side effects
might oc cur when using kidney radia-
tion?)
Khi dùng có thể gây ra các tác dụng
phụ như đau bụng, tiêu chảy, đau
đầu (It can cause side effects such
as abdominal pain, diarrhea, and
headac hes.)
Khi dùng có thể gây ra các tác dụng
phụ như đau bụng, tiêu chảy, đau
đầu (It can cause side effects such
as abdominal pain, diarrhea, and
headac hes.)
Liên tu có thểảnh hưởng đến cơ thể
như thế nào trong trường hợp sử dụng
dài hạn, đặc biệt là đối với người suy
nhược hoặc có tiểu tiện bí? (How can
Lotus affect the body in cases of long-
term use, especially for those who are
debilitated or have urinary reten tion?)
Cơ thể suy nhược, táo bón, tiểu tiện
bí không nên dùng Liên tu. (Peop le
with a debilitated body, con stipation,
or urinary reten tion should not use Lo-
tus seeds.)
Cơ thể suy nhược, táo bón, tiểu tiện
bí không nên dùng Liên tu. (Peop le
with a debilitated body, con stipation,
or urinary reten tion should not use Lo-
tus seeds.)
Table 7: Some respon ses of the Vi Herb QA model.
on ly. However, with the result in Table 6, we can
see that two models have yet to have the ability to
solve questions in VTHM.
The out comes of GPT3.5 and Gemini Flash
show that while state-of-the-art LLMs excel in nu-
merous domains, they have significant limitations
in expert domains, particularly VTHM. This un-
locks the op portunity for researchers to in vestigate
new ap proac hes that mix modern tec hnologies with
traditional wisdom, as demonstrated by Vi Herb QA.
5
Con clusion
This work presents Vi Herb QA, the first question-
an swering system for VTHM. The absen ce of
VTHM-specific QA datasets is addressed by us-
ing various state-of-the-art LLMs to build a dataset
with 208,203 question-an swer pairs that are then
carefully evaluated using numerous ap prop riate
lan guage evaluation met rics. With its foun dation on
sturdy Vi T5 architec ture, we have construc ted the
Vi Herb QA model in two stages, and it performs
bet ter than any ot her model in terms of an swer-
ing questions about VTHM. Such fin dings in dicate
that Vi Herb QA out performs com petitive baselines
con sisting of state-of-the-art LLMs and existing
Viet namese tran sformer models, which further em-
phasize the im portan ce of domain knowledge cou-
pled with fine-tuning for more precise ap plications
wit hin this field. This research con tributes valuable
resources for the VTHM com munity and motivates
studies com bining traditional medicine and modern
artificial in telligen ce.
6
Future work
We will use explainable AI tec hniques for the Vi-
Herb QA model in the future. These in clude making
visible at ten tion and determining which features
are essen tial to in terpreting the model’s respon ses.
Con sequen tly, trust levels in this system may in-
crease, and more un derstan ding about in formation
in VTHM may be offered. In this way, we hope to
see big strides in AI-assisted traditional medicine
for a more in formed ap plication of VTHM in to
con tem porary healthcare systems.
We will also in tegrate the DPO tec hnique for fur-
ther en han cement of Vi Herb QA in line with users’
preferen ces. It enables us to adjust the system so
that it can produce respon ses that are more rele-


vant, in formative, and culturally sen sitive wit hin
the domain of VTHM through direct op timization
of the model parameters using human feedback.
Referen ces
Dan qi Chen, Adam Fisch, Jason Weston, and An toine
Bordes. 2017. Reading wikipedia to an swer open-
domain questions. ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:1704.00051.
Zeming Chen, Alejan dro Hernán dez Cano, An gelika
Romanou, An toine Bon net, Kyle Matoba, Fran cesco
Salvi, Mat teo Pagliardini, Simin Fan, An dreas
K¨opf, Amirkeivan Mohtashami, Alexan dre Sallinen,
Alireza Sakhaeirad, Vinit ra Swamy, Igor Krawczuk,
Deniz Bayazit, Axel Marmet, Syrielle Mon tariol,
Mary-An ne Hartley, Martin Jaggi, and An toine
Bosselut. 2023.
Medit ron-70b: Scaling medical
pret raining for large lan guage models.
Prep rint,
ar Xiv:2311.16079.
Hao Cheng, Yelong Shen, Xiaodong Liu, Pengcheng He,
Weizhu Chen, and Jian feng Gao. 2021. Unitedqa: A
hybrid ap proach for open domain question an swering.
ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:2101.00178.
Travers Ching, Daniel S Him melstein, Brett K Beaulieu-
Jones, Alexandr A Kalinin, Brian T Do, Gregory P
Way, En rico Ferrero, Paul-Mic hael Agapow, Mic hael
Zietz, Mic hael M Hoffman, et al. 2018. Op portuni-
ties and obstac les for deep learning in biology and
medicine.
Journal of the royal society in terface,
15(141):20170387.
Alexis Con neau, Kartikay Khan delwal, Naman Goyal,
Vishrav Chaudhary, Guillaume Wen zek, Fran cisco
Guzmán, Edouard Grave, Myle Ott, Luke Zet tle-
moyer, and Veselin Stoyanov. 2019. Un supervised
cross-lin gual rep resen tation learning at scale. Co RR,
abs/1911.02116.
Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Ken ton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova. 2018. Bert: Pre-training of deep
bidirec tional tran sformers for lan guage un derstand-
ing. ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:1810.04805.
Ke Han, Lei Zhang, Miao Wang, Rui Zhang, Chunyu
Wang, and Chengzhi Zhang. 2018. Predic tion meth-
ods of herbal com pounds in chinese medicinal herbs.
Molecules, 23(9):2303.
Armand Joulin, Edouard Grave, Piotr Bojanowski,
Mat thijs Douze, Hérve Jé gou, and Tomas Mikolov.
2016. Fasttext. zip: Com pressing text classification
models. Prep rint, ar Xiv:1612.03651.
Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. Rouge: A pac kage for automatic
evaluation of sum maries.
In Text sum marization
bran ches out, pages 74–81.
Yizhen Luo, Jiahuan Zhang, Siqi Fan, Kai Yang,
Yushuai Wu, Mu Qiao, and Zaiqing Nie. 2023.
Biomedgpt:
Open
multimodal
generative
pre-
trained tran sformer for biomedicine.
Prep rint,
ar Xiv:2308.09442.
Dat Quoc Nguyen, Linh The Nguyen, Chi Tran,
Dung Ngoc Nguyen, Dinh Phung, and Hung Bui.
2023. Pho GPT: Generative Pre-training for Viet-
namese. ar Xiv prep rint, ar Xiv:2311.02945.
Dat Quoc Nguyen and Anh Tuan Nguyen. 2020.
Pho BERT: Pre-trained lan guage models for Viet-
namese. In Fin dings of the Association for Com puta-
tional Lin guistics: EMNLP 2020, pages 1037–1042,
On line. Association for Com putational Lin guistics.
Nhung Thi-Hong Nguyen, Phuong Phan-Dieu Ha,
Luan Thanh Nguyen, Kiet Van Nguyen, and Ngan
Luu-Thuy Nguyen. 2022.
Spbertqa: A two-
stage question an swering system based on sen-
ten ce tran sformers for medical texts.
Prep rint,
ar Xiv:2206.09600.
Barlas Oguz, Xilun Chen, Vladimir Karpukhin, Stan
Peshterliev, Dmyt ro Okhon ko, Mic hael Schlichtkrull,
Sonal Gup ta, Yashar Mehdad, and Scott Yih. 2022.
Uni K-QA: Unified rep resen tations of struc tured and
unstruc tured knowledge for open-domain question
an swering. In Fin dings of the Association for Com-
putational Lin guistics: NAACL 2022, pages 1535–
1546, Seat tle, United States. Association for Com pu-
tational Lin guistics.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-
Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a met hod for automatic evalu-
ation of mac hine tran slation. In Proceedings of the
40th an nual meeting of the Association for Com puta-
tional Lin guistics, pages 311–318.
Long Phan, Hieu Tran, Hieu Nguyen, and Trieu H
Trinh. 2022a.
Vit5: Pret rained text-to-text trans-
former for viet namese lan guage generation. ar Xiv
prep rint ar Xiv:2205.06457.
Long Phan, Hieu Tran, Hieu Nguyen, and Trieu H.
Trinh. 2022b.
Vit5: Pret rained text-to-text trans-
former for viet namese lan guage generation. Prep rint,
ar Xiv:2205.06457.
Telmo Pires, Eva Schlin ger, and Dan Garret te. 2019.
How multilin gual is multilin gual bert?
Co RR,
abs/1906.01502.
Colin Raffel, Noam Shazeer, Adam Roberts, Kat herine
Lee, Sharan Narang, Mic hael Matena, Yan qi Zhou,
Wei Li, and Peter J Liu. 2020. Exploring the lim-
its of tran sfer learning with a unified text-to-text
tran sformer. Journal of mac hine learning research,
21(140):1–67.
Yang Tan, Mingchen Li, Zijie Huang, Huiqun Yu, and
Guisheng Fan. 2023. Medchatzh: a bet ter medical
adviser learns from bet ter instruc tions.
Prep rint,
ar Xiv:2309.01114.
Nic holas P Tatonet ti, Guy Haskin Fernald, and Russ B
Altman. 2012. A novel signal detec tion algorithm
for iden tifying hidden drug-drug in terac tions in ad-
verse event reports. Journal of the American Medical
In formatics Association, 19(1):79–85.


Nguyen Luong Tran, Duong Minh Le, and Dat Quoc
Nguyen. 2021.
Bartpho: Pre-trained sequen ce-
to-sequen ce models for viet namese.
Co RR,
abs/2109.09701.
Chaoyong Wu, Jian xin Chen, Elaine Lai-Han Leung,
Hang Chang, and Xu Wang. 2022. Artificial in telli-
gen ce in traditional medicine.
Zhilin Yang, Zihang Dai, Yiming Yang, Jaime Car-
bonell, Russ R Salakhut dinov, and Quoc V Le. 2019.
Xlnet: Generalized autoregressive pret raining for lan-
guage un derstan ding. Advan ces in neural in forma-
tion processing systems, 32.
Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q
Wein berger, and Yoav Artzi. 2019. Bertscore: Eval-
uating text generation with bert.
ar Xiv prep rint
ar Xiv:1904.09675.
A
Prompt and Out put of the Dataset
Generation step


1. Ac tiso làm thế nào giúp bảo vệ gan và giải độc gan? Cơ chế hoạt động của nó là gì?
2. Thành phần hóa học chính của Ac tiso bao gồm những gì và làm thế nào các thành phần này
ảnh hưởng đến sức khỏe của gan và cơ thể?
3. Tác dụng lợi tiểu và lợi mật của Ac tiso được thể hiện như thế nào trong việc điều trị bệnh phù,
thấp khớp và các vấn đề liên quan đến gan?
4. Cách sử dụng và liều dùng Ac tiso như thế nào để đạt hiệu quả tốt nhất trong điều trị và bảo vệ
sức khỏe?
5. Có những nghiên cứu nào đã chứng minh về tác dụng của Ac tiso trong việc bảo vệ gan, hỗ trợ
tiêu hóa, và ngăn ngừa các bệnh lý khác không?
6. Liệu Ac tiso có thể được sử dụng trong việc hỗ trợ điều trịung thư và giảm nguy cơ mắc bệnh
không? Cơ chế hoạt động của nó là gì?
7. Trong y học cổ truyền, có những lời khuyên cụ thể nào về cách sử dụng và kết hợp Ac tiso với
các loại thực phẩm khác để tối ưu hóa tác dụng của nó?
8. Có những tác dụng phụ nào có thể xảy ra khi sử dụng Ac tiso trong điều trị dài hạn? Làm thế
nào để đối phó với những tác dụng này?
9. Ac tiso có ảnh hưởng đến sức khỏe xương và tim mạch như thế nào? Có cách nào để tăng
cường hiệu quả của việc sử dụng Ac tiso trong việc bảo vệ hệ xương và tim mạch không?
10. Trong trường hợp cần thiết, liệu có những biện pháp thay thế nào có thể sử dụng để thay thế
hoặc bổ sung cho việc sử dụng Ac tiso?
11. Có những biện pháp nào cần được thực hiện để đảm bảo an toàn và hiệu quả khi sử dụng
Ac tiso, đặc biệt là khi kết hợp với các loại thuốc khác?
12. Có những nghiên cứu nào về tương tác giữa Ac tiso và các loại thuốc hoặc thực phẩm khác mà
chúng ta nên biết?
13. Ac tiso có thểảnh hưởng đến quá trình tiêu hóa hay hấp thụ chất dinh dưỡng không? Nếu có,
thì làm thế nào?
14. Trong trường hợp sử dụng Ac tiso để giảm cân, liệu có những biện pháp điều chỉnh chế độ ăn
uống và lối sống cần thiết để đạt hiệu quả tốt nhất không?
15. Có nên sử dụng Ac tiso trong trường hợp tự điều trị các vấn đề sức khỏe nhẹ mà không tham
khảo ý kiến của chuyên gia y tế không?
16. Làm thế nào để đảm bảo tuân thủ đúng liều lượng và cách sử dụng khi sử dụng Ac tiso?
17. Ac tiso có thể gây ra tình trạng phụ thuộc hay nghiện nếu sử dụng kéo dài không?
18. Có những hạn chế hay rủi ro gì khi sử dụng Ac tiso, đặc biệt là trong nhóm người dễ bịảnh
hưởng như trẻem, phụ nữ mang thai hoặc cho con bú, người già, và người mắc các bệnh mãn
tính?
19. Liệu có những tác động phụ nào có thể xuất hiện khi sử dụng Ac tiso trong điều trị dài hạn?
20. Trong y học cổ truyền, liệu có những lời khuyên nào về cách lựa chọn, thu hái và bảo quản
Ac tiso để đảm bảo hiệu quả và an toàn?
Figure 3: Sam ple out put for the Question Generation step with the En tire Con tent in put.


1. How does Artic hoke help protect the liver and detoxify it? What is its mec hanism of ac tion?
2. What are the main chemical com ponents of Artic hoke, and how do these com ponents affect
liver health and overall health?
3. How are the diuretic and choleretic effects of Artic hoke manifested in the treat ment of edema,
rheumatism, and liver-related issues?
4. How should Artic hoke be used, and what is the recom men ded dosage to ac hieve the best
results in treat ment and health protec tion?
5. Are there any studies that have proven the effects of Artic hoke in protec ting the liver, aiding
digestion, and preven ting ot her diseases?
6. Can Artic hoke be used to sup port can cer treat ment and reduce the risk of disease? What is its
mec hanism of ac tion?
7. In traditional medicine, are there specific recom men dations on how to use and com bine
Artic hoke with ot her foods to op timize its effects?
8. What side effects might oc cur when using Artic hoke for long-term treat ment? How can these
side effects be managed?
9. How does Artic hoke affect bone and cardiovascular health? Is there a way to en han ce the
effec tiveness of using Artic hoke in protec ting the skeletal and cardiovascular systems?
10. In necessary cases, are there any alternative measures that can be used to rep lace or sup ple-
ment the use of Artic hoke?
11. What measures should be taken to en sure safety and effec tiveness when using Artic hoke,
especially when com bined with ot her medications?
12. Are there any studies on the in terac tions bet ween Artic hoke and ot her drugs or foods that we
should be aware of?
13. Can Artic hoke affect the digestion or absorption of nut rients? If so, how?
14. In the case of using Artic hoke for weight loss, are there necessary dietary and lifestyle
adjustments to ac hieve the best results?
15. Is it advisable to use Artic hoke for self-treat ment of minor health issues wit hout con sulting a
healthcare professional?
16. How can one en sure proper adheren ce to dosage and usage instruc tions when using Artic hoke?
17. Can prolon ged use of Artic hoke lead to depen den ce or addic tion?
18. What limitations or risks are associated with using Artic hoke, especially in vulnerable groups
such as children, pregnant or breastfeeding women, the elderly, and those with chronic
con ditions?
19. Are there any poten tial side effects that may ap pear with long-term use of Artic hoke in
treat ment?
20. In traditional medicine, are there any recom men dations on how to select, harvest, and preserve
Artic hoke to en sure effec tiveness and safety?
Figure 4: Sam ple out put for the Question Generation step with the En tire Con tent in put (tran slated to En glish).


1. Tôi muốn hỏi về phương pháp truyền thống dùng dược liệu để điều trị bệnh sổ mũi và say nắng,
bạn có thể chia sẻ thông tin về điều này không? (I would like to ask about traditional met hods
using herbal remedies to treat a run ny nose and heatstroke. Can you share in formation about
this?)
2. Có bài thuốc dân gian nào được sử dụng trong y học cổ truyền để chữa bệnh ho, sốt và sưng
amidan không? (Are there any folk remedies used in traditional medicine to treat coughs,
fever, and swollen ton sils?)
3. Xin bác sĩ tư vấn về việc sử dụng dược liệu từ cây Bướm bạc để điều trị viêm thận, phù và
giúp lợi tiểu. (Please advise on the use of herbal remedies from the But terfly Pea plant to
treat nep hritis, edema, and aid diuresis.)
4. Tôi đang quan tâm đến bài thuốc truyền thống dành cho bệnh khí hư bạch đới, bạn có thể
chia sẻ thông tin chi tiết về cách sử dụng không? (I am in terested in traditional remedies for
treating leukorrhea (abnormal vaginal discharge). Could you provide detailed in formation on
how to use them?)
5. Bác sĩ có thể giới thiệu về cách sử dụng dược liệu từ lá cây Mướp và lá cây Bướm bạc để chữa
lở loét da không? (Could you in troduce how to use herbal remedies from Luffa leaves and
But terfly Pea leaves to treat skin ulcers?)
Figure 5: Sam ple out put for the Question Generation step with the Herbal Prescrip tions Con tent in put.


Bạn hãy đóng vai trò là một chuyên gia y học cổ truyền Việt Nam, am hiểu sâu rộng về các loại
dược liệu. Bạn được cung cấp một văn bản khoa học về dược liệu {duoc_lieu} với danh mục chi
tiết. Nhiệm vụ của bạn là đọc kỹ văn bản và trả lời các câu hỏi dựa trên thông tin được cung cấp.
Đầu vào:
• DANH MỤC: Danh mục của văn bản khoa học, mỗi mục trên một dòng.
• CON TEXT: Nội dung chính của văn bản khoa học về dược liệu.
• Câu hỏi: Danh sách các câu hỏi liên quan đến dược liệu, mỗi câu hỏi trên một dòng.
Yêu cầu:
• Trả lời toàn bộ các câu hỏi chỉ dựa trên thông tin từ con text.
• Diễn giải câu trả lời từ góc nhìn của chuyên gia y học cổ truyền khi phù hợp.
• Sử dụng thuật ngữy học cổ truyền Việt Nam khi cần thiết.
• Trích dẫn chính xác phần con text liên quan đến câu trả lời.
• Nếu không có đủ thông tin để trả lời, hãy ghi: “Để có được thông tin chính xác, vui lòng liên
hệ với bác sĩ chuyên môn.”
• Định dạng đầu ra: JSON, bao gồm một danh sách các từ điển. Mỗi từ điển gồm ba phần tử:
– question: Câu hỏi đầu vào đã được chuẩn hóa (loại bỏ ký tự thừa, xuống dòng).
– an swer: Câu trả lời đầy đủ và chính xác.
– knowledge: Tiêu đề của mục trong {danh_muc} được sử dụng để trả lời câu hỏi.
Ví dụ:
[
{
“question”: “Thành phần hóa học của Ac tiso chứa những hợp chất nào quan trọng?”,
“an swer”: “Ac tiso chứa các hợp chất quan trọng như axit caffeic, flavonoid, lac ton sesquiterpene,
an thocyan”,
,→
“knowledge”: “2. Thành phần hóa học chứa trong Ac tiso''
},
{
``question”: “Ac tiso có tác dụng gì đối với gan?”,
“an swer”: “Ac tiso giúp tăng cường chức năng gan như làm tăng bài tiết dịch mật và giảm nồng độ các
độc tố”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Công dụng của Ac tiso''
}
]
DANH MỤC
{danh_muc}
CON TEXT:
{con text}
Câu hỏi
{list_of_questions}
Hãy trả lời các câu hỏi trên theo định dạng JSON đã yêu cầu.
Figure 6: Prompt tem plate for the An swer Generation step.


You will play the role of a traditional Viet namese medicine expert with deep knowledge of various
medicinal herbs. You are provided with a scien tific document about the medicinal herb {herb}
with a detailed list. Your task is to carefully read the document and an swer questions based on the
provided in formation.
In put:
• LIST: The list of the scien tific document, each item on a new line.
• CON TEXT: The main con tent of the scien tific document about the medicinal herb.
• Questions: A list of questions related to the medicinal herb, each question on a new line.
Requirements:
• An swer all questions based on ly on the in formation from the con text.
• Explain the an swers from the perspec tive of a traditional medicine expert when ap prop riate.
• Use Viet namese traditional medicine terminology when necessary.
• Ac curately cite the relevant part of the con text in the an swer.
• If there is in sufficient in formation to an swer, write: “For ac curate in formation, please con sult
a specialist.”
• Out put format: JSON, in cluding a list of dic tionaries. Each dic tionary con tains three elements:
– question: The stan dardized in put question (removing extraneous charac ters, line breaks).
– an swer: The full and ac curate an swer.
– knowledge: The tit le of the sec tion in {list} used to an swer the question.
Exam ple:
[
{
“question”: “What im portant com pounds are con tained in the chemical com position of Artic hoke?”,
“an swer”: “Artic hoke con tains im portant com pounds such as caffeic acid, flavonoids, sesquiterpene
lac tones, an thocyanins”,
,→
“knowledge”: “2. The chemical com position con tained in Artic hoke.”
},
{
“question”: “What are the effects of Artic hoke on the liver?”,
“an swer”: “Artic hoke helps en han ce liver fun ction, such as in creasing bile sec retion and reducing toxin
levels”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Uses of Artic hoke”
}
]
MENU
{menu}
CON TEXT:
{con text}
Questions
{list_of_questions}
Please an swer the questions in the required JSON format.
Figure 7: Prompt tem plate for the An swer Generation step (tran slated to En glish).


[
{
“question”: “Ac tiso làm thế nào giúp bảo vệ gan và giải độc gan? Cơ chế hoạt động của nó là gì?”,
“an swer”: “Ac tiso chứa cynarin và axit caffeoylquinic, là những chất chống oxy hóa có thể bảo
vệ gan. Chúng giúp làm giảm nồng độ các độc tố có hại cho gan và có thể giúp sửa chữa
các tế bào gan bị tổn thương.”,
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Các nghiên cứu về tác dụng của Ac tiso”
},
{
“question”: “Thành phần hóa học chính của Ac tiso bao gồm những gì và làm thế nào các thành
phần này ảnh hưởng đến sức khỏe của gan và cơ thể?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Ac tiso chứa các hợp chất như dẫn xuất axit caffeic, flavonoid, lac ton sesquiterpene,
an thocyan, và tan nin. Những hợp chất này có tác dụng dược lý quan trọng, hỗ trợ chức
năng gan và sức khỏe tổng thể.”,
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “2. Thành phần hóa học chứa trong Ac tiso”
},
{
“question”: “Tác dụng lợi tiểu và lợi mật của Ac tiso được thể hiện như thế nào trong việc điều
trị bệnh phù, thấp khớp và các vấn đề liên quan đến gan?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Ac tiso có tác dụng lợi tiểu, giúp thông tiểu tiện và thông mật, từ đó hỗ trợ điều trị
bệnh phù, thấp khớp, và các bệnh yếu gan thận.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Công dụng của Ac tiso”
},
{
“question”: “Cách sử dụng và liều dùng Ac tiso như thế nào để đạt hiệu quả tốt nhất trong điều
trị và bảo vệ sức khỏe?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Ac tiso có thể dùng lá tươi hoặc khô, thuốc sắc từ5-10% hoặc 2-10g lá khô/ngày. Có
thể chế thành cao mềm hay lỏng để sử dụng dưới dạng giọt, mỗi lần 10-40 giọt.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Cách dùng và liều dùng Ac tiso”
},
{
“question”: “Có những nghiên cứu nào đã chứng minh về tác dụng của Ac tiso trong việc bảo vệ
gan, hỗ trợ tiêu hóa, và ngăn ngừa các bệnh lý khác không?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Nhiều nghiên cứu đã chứng minh Ac tiso giúp bảo vệ gan, tăng bài tiết dịch mật, hỗ
trợ tiêu hóa và ngăn ngừa các bệnh lý như tim mạch và ung thư.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Các nghiên cứu về tác dụng của Ac tiso”
},
{
“question”: “Liệu Ac tiso có thể được sử dụng trong việc hỗ trợ điều trịung thư và giảm nguy cơ
mắc bệnh không? Cơ chế hoạt động của nó là gì?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Ac tiso chứa các chất chống oxy hóa có thể giúp ngăn ngừa tổn thương tế bào và biến
đổi gene dẫn đến ung thư, do đó có thể giảm nguy cơ mắc bệnh.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Các nghiên cứu về tác dụng của Ac tiso”
},
{
“question”: “Trong y học cổ truyền, có những lời khuyên cụ thể nào về cách sử dụng và kết hợp
Ac tiso với các loại thực phẩm khác để tối ưu hóa tác dụng của nó?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Để tối ưu hóa tác dụng của Ac tiso, nên kết hợp với chế độ ăn uống cân bằng, lành
mạnh và có thể sử dụng cùng với các loại thực phẩm giàu chất xơ để hỗ trợ tiêu hóa.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Công dụng của Ac tiso”
},
{
“question”: “Có những tác dụng phụ nào có thể xảy ra khi sử dụng Ac tiso trong điều trị dài
hạn? Làm thế nào để đối phó với những tác dụng này?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Ac tiso không gây độc, nhưng nếu có tác dụng phụ, cần theo dõi sức khỏe và tham
khảo ý kiến bác sĩ để điều chỉnh liều dùng hoặc ngừng sử dụng.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Cách dùng và liều dùng Ac tiso”
}
]
Figure 8: Sam ple out put of the An swer Generation step for the En tire Con tent .


[
{
“question”: “How does Artic hoke help protect the liver and detoxify it? What is its mec hanism
of ac tion?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Artic hoke con tains cynarin and caffeoylquinic acid, which are an tioxidants that can
protect the liver. They help reduce levels of harmful toxins in the liver and may assist in
repairing damaged liver cells.”,
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Studies on the effects of Artic hoke.”
},
{
“question”: “What are the main chemical com ponents of Artic hoke, and how do these
com ponents affect liver health and overall health?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Artic hoke con tains com pounds such as caffeic acid derivatives, flavonoids,
sesquiterpene lac tones, an thocyanins, and tan nins. These com pounds have im portant
pharmacological effects, sup porting liver fun ction and overall health.”,
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “2. The chemical com position con tained in Artic hoke.”
},
{
“question”: “How are the diuretic and choleretic effects of Artic hoke manifested in the treat ment
of edema, rheumatism, and liver-related issues?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Artic hoke has diuretic effects, helping with urination and bile sec retion, thereby
sup porting the treat ment of edema, rheumatism, and weak liver and kidney diseases.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Uses of Artic hoke”
},
{
“question”: “How should Artic hoke be used, and what is the recom men ded dosage to ac hieve the
best results in treat ment and health protec tion?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Artic hoke can be used fresh or dried, decoc ted at 5-10%, or 2-10g of dried leaves per
day. It can be prepared as a soft or liquid extract and used in drops, 10-40 drops per dose.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “4. How to use and dosage of Artic hoke”
},
{
“question”: “Are there any studies that have proven the effects of Artic hoke in protec ting the
liver, aiding digestion, and preven ting ot her diseases?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Many studies have proven that Artic hoke helps protect the liver, in crease bile
sec retion, aid digestion, and prevent diseases such as cardiovascular disease and can cer.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Studies on the effects of Artic hoke”
},
{
“question”: “Can Artic hoke be used to sup port can cer treat ment and reduce the risk of disease?
What is its mec hanism of ac tion?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Artic hoke con tains an tioxidants that may help prevent cell damage and genetic
mutations leading to can cer, thereby poten tially reducing the risk of disease.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “5. Studies on the effects of Artic hoke”
},
{
“question”: “In traditional medicine, are there specific recom men dations on how to use and
com bine Artic hoke with ot her foods to op timize its effects?”,
,→
“an swer”: “To op timize the effects of Artic hoke, it should be com bined with a balan ced, healthy
diet and can be used alon gside fiber-rich foods to sup port digestion.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “3. Uses of Artic hoke”
},
{
“question”: “What side effects might oc cur when using Artic hoke for long-term treat ment? How
can these side effects be managed?”,
,→
“an swer”: “Artic hoke is non-toxic, but if side effects oc cur, monitor health and con sult a doc tor
to adjust the dosage or discon tinue use.”,
,→
“knowledge”: “4. How to use and dosage of Artic hoke”
}
]
Figure 9: Sam ple out put of the An swer Generation step for the En tire Con tent (tran slated to En glish).


[
{
“question”: “Tôi muốn hỏi về phương pháp truyền thống dùng dược liệu để điều trị bệnh sổ mũi
và say nắng, bạn có thể chia sẻ thông tin về điều này không?” (“I would like to ask about
traditional met hods using medicinal herbs to treat a run ny nose and heatstroke; can you
share in formation about this?”),
,→
,→
,→
“an swer”: “Để điều trị bệnh sổ mũi và say nắng, bạn có thể sử dụng 12g thân cây Bướm bạc, 3g
Bạc hà, và 10g lá Ngũ trảo. Rửa sạch và để ráo nước, sau đó đun sôi cùng với nước để
dùng thay thế cho nước trà hằng ngày.” (“To treat a run ny nose and heatstroke, you can
use 12g of But terfly tree stem, 3g of Mint, and 10g of Vitex leaves. Clean and drain, then
boil with water to use as a daily tea substitute.”),
,→
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một số bài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some em pirical remedies”)
},
{
“question”: “Có bài thuốc dân gian nào được sử dụng trong y học cổ truyền để chữa bệnh ho, sốt
và sưng amidan không?” (“Is there a folk remedy used in traditional medicine to treat
cough, fever, and ton sillitis?”),
,→
,→
“an swer”: “Có, để chữa bệnh ho, sốt và sưng amidan, bạn có thể sử dụng 30g rễ cây Bướm bạc,
10g rễ Bọ mẩy và 20g Huyền sâm. Rửa sạch các vị thuốc, sau đó sắc với một lượng nước
phù hợp và sử dụng.” (“Yes, to treat cough, fever, and ton sillitis, you can use 30g of
But terfly tree root, 10g of Mẩy root, and 20g of Scrop hularia root. Clean the herbs, then
decoct with an ap prop riate amount of water and use.”),
,→
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một số bài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some em pirical remedies”)
},
{
“question”: “Xin bác sĩ tư vấn về việc sử dụng dược liệu từ cây Bướm bạc để điều trị viêm thận,
phù và giúp lợi tiểu.” (“Please advise on using medicinal herbs from the But terfly tree to
treat nep hritis, edema, and help with diuresis.”),
,→
,→
“an swer”: “Để điều trị viêm thận, phù và giúp lợi tiểu, bạn có thể sử dụng 30g thân Bướm bạc
kết hợp với 60g Kim ngân hoa và 30g Mã đề, sắc nước uống.” (“To treat nep hritis, edema,
and help with diuresis, you can use 30g of But terfly tree stem com bined with 60g of
Honeysuc kle flower and 30g of Plan tain, and decoct for drin king.”),
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một số bài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some em pirical remedies”)
},
{
“question”: “Tôi đang quan tâm đến bài thuốc truyền thống dành cho bệnh khí hư bạch đới, bạn
có thể chia sẻ thông tin chi tiết về cách sử dụng không?” (“I am in terested in a traditional
remedy for leucorrhea, can you share detailed in formation on how to use it?”),
,→
,→
“an swer”: “Để chữa bệnh khí hư bạch đới, bạn cần 10 đến 20g rễ Bướm bạc. Rửa sạch, sắc kỹ với
nước lọc một lượng phù hợp và sử dụng mỗi ngày.” (“To treat leucorrhea, you need 10 to
20g of But terfly tree root. Clean it thoroughly, decoct with a suitable amount of filtered
water, and use daily.”),
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một số bài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some em pirical remedies”)
},
{
“question”: “Bác sĩ có thể giới thiệu về cách sử dụng dược liệu từ lá cây Mướp và lá cây Bướm
bạc để chữa lở loét da không?” (“Can you in troduce how to use medicinal herbs from
Loofah leaves and But terfly tree leaves to treat skin ulcers?”),
,→
,→
“an swer”: “Để chữa lở loét da, bạn cần dùng lá cây Mướp tươi và lá cây Bướm bạc tươi với liều
lượng bằng nhau. Rửa sạch, để ráo rồi giã nát ra đắp bã vào các vùng lở loét da, cố định
lại và sau đó rửa lại với nước sạch.” (“To treat skin ulcers, you need fresh Loofah leaves
and fresh But terfly tree leaves in equal amounts. Clean them, drain, then crush and ap ply
the paste to the ulcerated areas, secure it, and then wash with clean water.”),
,→
,→
,→
,→
“knowledge”: “4. Một số bài thuốc kinh nghiệm” (“4. Some em pirical remedies”)
}
]
Figure 10: Sam ple out put of the An swer Generation step for the Herbal Prescrip tions Con tent.