Explaining Facial Expression Recognition
San jeev Nahulanthran
Monash University
Melbourne, Australia
san jeev. nahulanthran@monash. edu
Leimin Tian
CSIRO Robotics
Melbourne, Australia
leimin. tian@data61. csiro. au
Dana Kulić
Monash University
Melbourne, Australia
dana. kulic@monash. edu
Mor Vered
Monash University
Melbourne, Australia
mor. vered@monash. edu
ABSTRACT
Facial expression recognition (FER) has emerged as a promising
ap proach to the develop ment of emotion-aware in telligent agents
and systems. However, key challen ges remain in utilizing FER
in real-world con texts, in cluding en suring user un derstan ding
and establishing a suitable level of user trust. We developed a
novel explanation met hod utilizing Facial Ac tion Units (FAUs)
to explain the out put of a FER model through both textual and
visual modalities. We con duc ted an em pirical user study evaluating
user un derstan ding and trust, com paring our ap proach to state-
of-the-art e Xplainable AI (XAI) met hods. Our results in dicate that
visual AND textual as well as textual-on ly FAU-based explanations
resulted in bet ter user un derstan ding of the FER model. We
also show that all modalities of FAU-based met hods im proved
ap prop riate trust of the users towards the FER model.
KEYWORDS
Facial Expression Recognition; Explainability; Tran sparen cy; Trust;
Facial Ac tion Unit
ACM Referen ce Format:
San jeev Nahulanthran, Leimin Tian, Dana Kulić, and Mor Vered. 2025.
Explaining Facial Expression Recognition. In Proc. of the 24th In ternational
Con feren ce on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems (AAMAS 2025),
Det roit, Mic higan, USA, May 19 – 23, 2025, IFAAMAS, 9 pages.
1
IN TRODUC TION
Automatic facial expression recognition (FER) systems, which
recognize human emotions from visual in formation using mac hine
learning ap proac hes, have been proposed to sup port emotion-
aware in telligent systems. FER systems have been adop ted
in ap plications in multip le domains such as e-learning [20],
healthcare [18], automated driver-assistan ce [22] and security [41].
The performan ce of FER systems has been con tinuously im proving,
especially with the advan cements in data-driven deep-learning
ap proac hes. However, FER systems are far from perfect, due to
tec hnical limits and human emotional expressions being personal
and con text-depen dant [4, 44]. This has led to urgent challen ges in
This work is licen sed un der a Creative Com mons At tribution
In ternational 4.0 Licen se.
Proc. of the 24th In ternational Con feren ce on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems
(AAMAS 2025), Y. Vorobeyc hik, S. Das, A. No wé (eds.), May 19 – 23, 2025, Det roit, Mic higan,
USA. © 2025 In ternational Foun dation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems
(www. ifaamas. org).
utilizing FER systems to ac hieve real-world benefits, as highlighted
by the recent discussion of poten tially ban ning the use of AI
tec hnologies in cluding FER systems in the EU’s AI Act [12]. One
major con cern is the lack of tran sparen cy and explainability in deep-
learning based FER [25]. This hin ders an end-user’s un derstan ding
of these systems as well as their ability to calibrate trust towards
the system’s out puts and use this tec hnology to their benefit [1].
The growing literature in e Xplainable AI (XAI) suggests
numerous benefits in providing explanations to end-users, namely
in enabling bet ter un derstan ding of AI model predic tions [48] while
mitigating bias [47] and helping users gain greater con fiden ce
in model predic tions [45]. However, in FER, the majority of
existing research has focused on providing explanations to
model developers [7], in stead of end-users. A recent work [33]
demonstrates the benefits of FER explanations on im proving user
un derstan ding as well as perceived and demonstrated trust of a
FER system. However, as on ly one XAI met hod was evaluated in
this study, it is un clear which explanation types and presen tation
modalities in current XAI literature are the most effec tive for
explaining FER to end-users. Moreover, this work did not in vestigate
trust calibration, i. e., whet her or not the user’s trust towards the FER
model aligns with its performan ce. As explanations can in fluen ce a
user’s trust in a system’s capabilities, care must be taken to reduce
over or un der relian ce [31] which may im pair a user’s decision
making in mission critical set tings.
We therefore in vestigate the effect of explanations on user trust
and un derstan ding of FER systems. We first propose a novel XAI
met hod, named DEFAULTS (Deterministic Explanations through a
Facial Ac tion Unit visua L-Textual System) that explains FER with
visual and textual in formation groun ded in facial expression and
emotion theories. We then measure ap prop riate trust, i. e., when the
user’s belief in the system aligns with the system’s out put ac curacy,
as well as system un derstan ding, measured as the alignment bet ween
a user’s predic tion of the FER model’s out put and the model’s ac tual
out put. We em pirically show, through a user study that this novel
met hod yields higher ap prop riate trust and un derstan ding in users
com pared to state-of-the-art XAI met hods.
Using the con tribution taxonomy proposed in [50], our work
has the following con tributions: Artifact: We developed a
novel explanation met hod (DEFAULTS) using predic ted Facial
Ac tion Units (FAUs) to generate a com bined textual and visual
explanation for FER models. Visual explanations are shown through
highlighted facial lan dmarks associated with ac tivated FAUs, while
textual explanations describe the FAU ac tivations; Em pirical: We
ar Xiv:2501.15864v2 [cs. HC] 16 Apr 2025


demonstrate that users who are provided with visual and textual
FAU-based explanations on FER have a bet ter un derstan ding of
the system’s predic tions. We also demonstrate that this type of
explanation met hod en gen ders higher ap prop riate trust in the
system as com pared to not having explanations; and Dataset: We
con tribute a dataset1 con taining images, explanations, participant
survey and free-text respon ses for all con ditions, collec ted from a
total of 280 participants.
2
RELATED WORK
2.1
Facial Expression Recognition (FER)
FER is a widely adop ted, non-con tact met hod for recognising
human expressions and emotions con veyed by images and facial
movements which has garnered growing research in the past few
years [5, 51]. FER has been shown to be naturalistic, unobtrusive,
economical and easy to dep loy and main tain using com mercially
available sen sing systems [20, 22, 24, 32]. As the field con tinues
to advan ce rapidly, it is crucial to provide a deeper un derstan ding
of the un derlying mac hine learning models so that end-users can
have a greater sen se of autonomy when using these systems [1].
Despite recent advan cements, several challen ges remain in
developing ac curate, reliable, and robust FER systems that can
operate in real-world con texts. FER literature has focused on
im proving classification ac curacy and rarely in vestigates the
percep tion, relian ce and trust of users [8, 37]. One major challen ge
in im proving these qualities is due to the lack of tran sparen cy
to end-users, which is in creasin gly becoming more im portant
in the con text of prac tical affec tive com puting research and
ap plication [4, 44]. A lack of tran sparen cy with regards to how
an in tegrated FER system uses the data in put to predict the out put
and how it uses the predic ted out put in making a decision could
affect the user’s percep tion and relian ce towards the system [25].
A system that is not tran sparent could be perceived as am biguous,
not ac coun table or even having mismat ched goals with the user [1].
2.2
e Xplainable Artificial In telligen ce (XAI)
In the field of artificial in telligen ce (AI), explainability (also
sometimes equated with in terpretability) [10, 17] aims to create a
shared un derstan ding [30] bet ween end-users and the AI system
that is being used. The main goal of these explainable AI systems
or XAI is to make the in ner workings of AI systems more
in terpretable and com prehen sible to human users [26, 46, 48],
provide greater tran sparen cy [16, 31], help users gain greater
con fiden ce in model predic tions [45] and en gen der ap prop riate
trust in these systems [49].
When in vestigating prevalent explanation met hods, there are
two main ap proac hes: backpropagation-based and perturbation-
based tec hniques [6]. In backpropagation-based tec hniques such
as Salien cy Maps [43], the algorithm performs one or more
forward passes through a net work and generates at tributions
during the backpropagation stage. SHAP [28] and LIME [39] on the
ot her hand, use perturbation-based tec hniques in which the in put
in stan ces are perturbed by oc clusions, substitutions, masking, etc
to generate an at tribution rep resen tation which in forms feature
1https://bridges. monash. edu/artic les/dataset/DEFAULTS_Dataset/28443197
im portan ce [6]. We choose these different explanation tec hniques
as they are rep resen tative of the explanation met hods exten sively
used curren tly in the field of XAI. While multip le com parison
studies [2, 35] have been con duc ted wit hin ot her areas, these
met hods have yet to be com pared wit hin the con text of FER.
2.3
FER XAI
As discussed earlier, multip le XAI met hods exist curren tly (such as
Grad-CAM [42], LIME [39], SHAP [28]) which at tempt to provide
post-hoc explanations to the in ner workings of different classifiers.
However, despite these being powerful met hods of explaining
generic models in AI, they have been developed to work with any
classifiers and not specifically with the purpose of in terpreting
FER models. As is usually the case, generality can cause a loss of
in formation which can affect performan ce. Prior com parison work
mostly utilized these types of met hod categories to qualitatively
assess the suitability of explanations [7, 38] which is subjec tive
in nature. In ot her studies [14, 28], aut hors use XAI tec hniques to
determine which features the model places more im portan ce on, so
that re-training with critical data points can take place for bet ter
performan ce. Crucially, these studies do not em pirically evaluate
the percep tions and un derstan ding of poten tial non-expert end-
users who are im portant stakeholders in the use of this tec hnology.
Em pirical experiments which con duct com parisons of end-user
un derstan ding and percep tion when provided with these different
explanations have not been exten sively researched in the con text
of FER to the best of our knowledge.
We com pare the performan ce of these widely used, general, XAI
met hods to our novel explanation system (DEFAULTS), tailored
specifically for the task of FER. To develop our system, we leverage
work from the Facial Ac tion Coding System (FACS) [13]. The FACS
en codes human facial expressions in terms of muscle ac tivations
on a person’s face. Each muscle ac tivation, or Facial Ac tion
Unit (FAU) rep resents a visible facial muscle movement that can
give in dications towards a person’s emotional state. Exam ples of
these FAUs in clude Eyebrow Raiser, Nose Wrin kler, Lips Part, etc.
DEFAULTS is therefore groun ded in formal theory with regards to
human physiology when expressing facial emotions.
In order to use FAUs as part of our explanations we first
need to be able to detect them. To guaran tee a fair com parison
of model ac curacy we need to en sure that the com parable,
general, XAI met hods are able to generate explanations from the
com mon referen ce FER model. To do this we leveraged prior work
which predic ted FAUs using various mac hine learning models,
such as Sup port Vec tor Mac hines (SVMs) [3] or Deep Learning
ap proac hes [21]. Kim and Kim [21] developed a Con volutional
Neural Net work (CNN) which ac cepts in put images and out puts
a predic tion of 8 emotion classes. Using the predic tion vec tor
and final con volutional layer, the aut hors fed that in to a Deep
Neural Net work (DNN) which out put ted a predic tion vec tor on 15
classes of FAUs. This met hod allows for effec tively generating FAU
predic tions using the DNN model. In our work we utilised the CNN
model, which was used as the basis prior to the DNN predic tor, as
the com mon referen ce model over which we generated explanations
using the ot her XAI met hods described.


3
MET HOD
An overview diagram of our study can be seen in Figure 1. The
top sec tion shows an exam ple of images shown to participants
of a person displaying an emotion. The first image shows
how images were presen ted to the con trol group, with no
additional explanations added to the image. The subsequent
images show exam ples of explanations by each XAI met hod being
com pared. Below that we display the survey questions presen ted to
participants after each test image. The questions in the test phase
were developed to gauge participant un derstan ding as well as level
of trust towards the model’s predic tive capabilities. The an swer
to the first question establishes the human ground truth predic tion
(HGTP), while the an swer to the second question established the
human model predic tion (HMP). We also in clude Evaluation Met rics
(displayed at the bot tom) to guide how we assess user un derstan ding
and trust. This evaluation is based on participant respon ses, dataset
an notations, and the model’s ac tual predic tions. In the following
subsec tions, we will provide more details on the FER model used
as a baseline, the XAI met hods chosen for com parison as well as
our novel explanation met hod, the study design used, experimen tal
procedure and finally, the participant selec tion and sam ple size
determination.
3.1
FER Model & Explanation Met hods
We rep licated the FER model developed by Kim and Kim [21], as
discussed in subsec tion 2.3, because it could be direc tly ap plied
by both general XAI met hods and FAU predic tions. The CNN
com ponent of the model was trained on the CK+ dataset [27],
ac hieving a validation ac curacy of 91.13%. This CNN model
took images as in put and produced out puts in the form of a
1x8 vec tor, predic ting the eight emotion classes. We used this
CNN model to generate explanations with various state-of-the-
art XAI met hods. The met hods chosen for com parison in clude
LIME [39] and SHAP [28] which are rep resen tatives of state-of-
the-art pertubation-based met hods, as well as Salien cy Maps [43]
which is a rep resen tative of state-of-the-art gradient-based met hod.
By using the same CNN model to generate all explanations, we
en sured a fair com parison as the ac curacy of the model is kept
con stant.
The DNN model was then trained as a separate head to the
CNN model in order to predict FAUs. It used a con catenation
of the final con volution layer of the CNN model (a 1x4032 Fully
Con nec ted node) and the 1x8 emotion predic tion vec tor from the
CNN to predict the FAUs present in an image. The DNN model
out puts a 1x15 vec tor of boolean ac tive/inac tive predic tions for
FAUs. When cross-validated using the CK+ dataset, this model
ac hieved a minimum ac curacy of 96.33%, similar to the CNN model.
With this in place, we now have the ability to generate FAU-based
explanations from the previously trained CNN model.
The out put of the DNN model, a 1x15 vec tor of boolean
ac tive/inac tive FAUs, could now be con verted direc tly in to textual
explanations of ac tivated FAUs (such as Eyebrow Raiser, Nose
Wrin kler, Lips Part, etc). An exam ple of this can be seen in
the Exam ple Test Image sec tion in Figure 1 un der the FAU-
T met hod. We then sought to develop a met hod to generate
visual rep resen tations of FAUs to com plement these textual
Figure 1: An Overview Figure. (From top) Visualisation of
exam ple test image shown to each cohort. Survey Questions
asked to users on ce they view the image and subsequent
explanation image. Dataset model labels con sisting of ‘GT’
which is the an notated label in the dataset for this image and
‘MP’ which is the FER model’s ac tual predic tion. Evaluation
Met rics visualisation, as detailed in Sec tion 3.5 (bot tom).
explanations. Utilizing the work from [36], we iden tified the facial
lan dmarks associated with each FAU ac tivated. We then drew
con tours bet ween the points to rep resent our finalized visual FAU
explanations. An exam ple of this can be seen in the Exam ple Test
Image sec tion in Figure 1 un der the FAU-V met hod. Both the
FAU-T and FAU-V met hods were com bined to generate the final
FAU-VT met hod as seen in Figure 1 which rep resents explanations
generated by DEFAULTS. The stan dardized masked rep resen tations
presen ted to participants are shown in Figure 2. The decision
to use stan dardized masked rep resen tations en sured that each
rep resen tation shown did not bias the user. For each masked image,
the original image was also displayed to users for easy com parison
of the regions highlighted by the mask.
3.2
Con ditions
The experiment was con duc ted as a bet ween-subject study with
seven con ditions. The list below out lines the seven cohort groups,


which were based on the explanation met hods described in the
previous subsec tion. Exam ple images generated for each cohort
can be seen in the Exam ple Test Images sec tion in Figure 1.
(1) CON TROL (CAI) Participants were not provided with any
explanations.
(2) LIME Participants were provided with explanations using
the LIME met hod.
(3) SALMAP Participants were provided with explanations
using the Salien cy Map met hod.
(4) SHAP Participants were provided with explanations using
the SHAP met hod.
(5) FAU-T Participants were provided with explanations using
on ly the textual modality of DEFAULTS. Exam ple: In ner Brow
Raised, Lips Parted, Nose Wrin kled, etc.
(6) FAU-V Participants were provided with explanations using
on ly the visual modality of DEFAULTS.
(7) FAU-VT Participants were provided with explanations using
both the textual and visual modality of DEFAULTS.
Figure 2: Stan dardized masked image explanations generated
by (a) LIME, (b) FAU-based, (c) Salien cy Map and (d) SHAP
3.3
Research Questions & Hypot heses
The goal of this work is to iden tify which types and modalities
of explanations en han ce users’ un derstan ding of FER models and
foster ap prop riate trust. We hypot hesized that users who receive
both textual and visual FAU-based explanations would bet ter
un derstand the system, demonstrated by their ability to more
ac curately predict the model’s out puts com pared to users who
receive no explanations at all. We further hypot hesized that this
in creased un derstan ding will also en gen der more ap prop riate trust
in the model. Based on this, we explored the following research
questions and associated hypot heses.
Research Questions:
(1) RQ1: Which explanation met hod most effec tively helps users
un derstand how the model works in prac tice?
H1.1: Users provided with visual explanations based on
FAUs will show a stron ger alignment with the model’s
predic tions com pared to users provided with ot her types
of visual explanations.
H1.2: Users provided with explanations in both visual and
textual modalities will show a stron ger alignment with the
model’s predic tions com pared to users provided with on ly
one modality of explanation.
(2) RQ2: Which explanation met hod helps users develop the most
ap prop riate level of trust in the model?
H2.1: Explanations based on visual FAUs will foster more
ap prop riate perceived and demonstrated trust in the model,
com pared to ot her types of visual explanations.
H2.2: Explanations provided as both visual and textual
modalities will lead to more ap prop riate perceived and
demonstrated trust in the model, com pared to in dividual
modalities.
Part #
Analyses
Cohort Groups
1
Explanation
Types
(visual on ly)
Con trol
(CAI),
LIME,
SALMAP, SHAP, FAU-V
2
Explanation Modality
Con trol
(CAI),
FAU-T,
FAU-V, FAU-VT
Table 1: Analyses
In order to an swer Research Question 1 and 2 the following
analyses were created, as shown in Table 1. Analysis Part #1
(Explanation Types (visual on ly)) an swers H1.1 and H2.1 whereas
Analysis Part #2 (Explanation Modality) an swers H1.2 and H2.2.
The design of both experiment analyses was cap tured in a pre-
registration on Open Scien ce Framework2 which was made public
before the experiment com men ced. The study procedure was
reviewed and ap proved by the Monash University Human Research
Et hics Com mit tee un der Project ID 37086.
3.4
Experiment Procedure
All cohorts gave their con sent at the start of the session and
com pleted a brief pre-question naire on demograp hics. Participants
then en tered a training phase specific to their cohort. The images
selec ted for the training phase were ran dom ly sam pled from the
CK+ dataset. During training participants in the con trol cohort
viewed images with facial expressions and were in formed of both
the ground truth an notated emotion and the model’s predic tion.
These participants did not receive any explanations. Participants
in the ot her six explanation cohorts were shown the original
images, ground truth an notation and model predic tion as well as an
explanation of the model ac cording to their cohort group. For each
of the 7 Ekman emotion categories [13] (neut ral, an ger, sadness,
hap piness, fear, surprise and disgust) participants were shown one
exam ple of an ac curate model predic tion and one exam ple of an
inac curate model predic tion (an exam ple for LIME is shown in
Figure 3). Participants were explicit ly in formed that the exam ples
of ac curate and inac curate predic tions were not reflec tive of the
model’s overall ac curacy.
Following the training phase, participants moved on to the
testing phase, which in cluded a total of 28 images (4 images for each
of the 7 emotion classes). The images were ran dom ly sam pled from
the Aff-Wild2 dataset [23] which features non-posed expression
images un der various lighting con ditions, age groups, and gen ders.
A balan ced distribution of 50% correct and 50% in correct predic tion
images was chosen to reflect state-of-the-art FER ac curacy of 52%
on this dataset [40]. Therefore, for each emotion class 2 correct and
2 in correc tly predic ted images were selec ted to be tested. By using
state-of-the-art FER benchmark with in-the-wild data to determine
the ac curacy of the model to be presen ted to users, our ap proach
2Links to pre-registration: osf. io/2ez64,osf. io/35upf


does not rely on the un derlying model’s ac curacy offering in sights
in to the ap plication of XAI in realistic FER con texts.
Similar to the training phase, for each image in the testing
phase, participants were shown the original test image along with
explanations of the model based on their specific cohort (eit her
LIME, SHAP, SALMAP, FAU-T, FAU-V or FAU-VT) (Figure 1, top).
Participants in the CON TROL (CAI) cohort were shown on ly the
original test image wit hout any explanations. Model predic tions
were not displayed to participants during the test phase. The order
in which the images were presen ted was ran domized to con trol for
any poten tial ordering effects.
Participants were then asked two questions (as shown in
the Survey Questions sec tion of Figure 1). For both questions,
participants were required to select one op tion from the seven
emotion categories. The seven emotion categories were used in stead
of the eight categories the model was trained on because the test
dataset (Aff-wild2) does not in clude the “con tempt” emotion. After
com pleting the 28 images, participants an swered the Trust Scale
and Explanation Satisfac tion scale [19]. The survey items were
designed to assess the participant’s perceived trust in the FER
model after being exposed to explanations, as well as to measure the
helpfulness of the explanations in the con text of FER. Participants in
the CON TROL cohort were not asked to com plete the Explanation
Satisfac tion Scale, as no explanations were provided to them. A full
process flow of the experiment procedure can be seen in Figure 4.
Figure 3: Exam ple images shown for the LIME cohort during
the training phase.
3.5
Evaluation Met rics
To evaluate and address RQ1 and RQ2, the following met ric items
were used:
(1) Human Model Predic tion (Hmp) Ac curacy: The num ber
of times that participants an swered Question #2 from the
Survey Questions sec tion in Figure 1 correc tly out of the
total num ber of questions. This measured a participant’s
ability to guess the model’s predic tion, which con tributes
towards an swering RQ1 H2.1 and H2.2.
(2) Ap prop riate Trust: This con tributes towards an swering
RQ2 H3.1 and H3.2. In Figure 1, “GT” rep resents the ground
Figure 4: Process Flow of Experiment Procedure.
truth an notation label from the Aff-Wild2 dataset and “MP”
rep resents the model predic tion of our FER model. Trust is
con sidered ap prop riate when eit her:
(a) For the correct test images (where GT is the same as MP):
Participant an swers for Question #1 (Hgtp) and Question
#2 (Hmp) from the Survey Questions sec tion in Figure 1
are the same. This means that participants trusted that
the model will predict the same emotion as what they
an swered for Question #1. OR;
(b) For the in correct test images (where GT is not the same
as MP): Participant an swers for Question #1 (Hgtp) and
Question #2 (Hmp) from the Survey Questions sec tion in
Figure 1 were different. This means that participants did
not trust that the model will predict the same emotion as
what they an swered for Question #1.
Ot her met rics cap tured and analysed which do not direc tly relate
to the research questions are shown below. These met rics help to
in form the study and add more con text to the discussion.
(1) HP Ac curacy: The num ber of times that the participant
an swered Question #1 from the Survey Questions sec tion in
Figure 1 correc tly (i. e., Hgtp = GT) out of the total num ber of
questions. This measured a participant’s ability to recognise
facial expressions.
(2) Trust Scale Overall Score: This was calculated as the sum
of the points for each question in the scale after deduc ting
the score from item #6 (“I am wary of the emotion recognition
system.”) which was negatively weighted.
(3) Explanation Satisfac tion Scale Overall score: calculated
as the sum of the points for each question in the scale.
We con duc ted a one-way ANOVA test for each of the met ric
items shown above to com pare the means of multip le groups wit hin


each analysis part. If the ANOVA test revealed any significan ce, we
con duct a subsequent post-hoc Tukey HSD test to determine which
groups were significan tly different from one anot her.
3.6
Participants
A G*Power analysis was con duc ted to determine the num ber of
sam ples required for each participant group. The goal was to
obtain 0.8 power at the stan dard .05 alpha error probability. Using
a one-way ANOVA test as our plan ned statistical test and an
estimated medium effect size of 0.25, we found the total sam ple
size recom men ded to be 200 participants for Analysis #1 which
has 5 groups. For Analysis #2, the total sam ple size recom men ded
was 160 participants for a medium effect size of 0.265 and 4 groups.
Due to the overlap of the Con trol and the FAU-V cohorts for both
analysis parts, the num ber of participants rec ruited was 280 in total.
Participants were rec ruited from the Prolific plat form which has
been shown to produce high quality respon ses [11, 15]. Participants
were selec ted from En glish speaking coun tries (Australia, UK,
US, Canada) bet ween the ages of 18 to 100 years old with the
male: female gen der ratio balan ced at 50%. Participants were paid at
a rate of £6 per hour and the study’s estimated time was 30 minutes
based on a pilot study con duc ted with 21 participants.
To en sure the quality of respon ses, two at ten tion checks were
put in place wit hin the survey which tested participants based on
their ability to recognize generic objects. The questions were not
relevant to the test questions presen ted in the main body of the
survey. Participants who com pleted the survey in less than half
of the median time (ap proximately 30 minutes) and failed both
at ten tion checks were removed from the study results to en sure
on ly quality respon ses were cap tured.
4
RESULTS
We now describe the results of our study. We use boxplots to
present our results, in which the top line of the box rep resents
the 3rd quartile and the bot tom line rep resents the 1st quartile of
the data points. The middle “bolded” line in the box rep resents the
2nd quartile or median of the data. Dots in the boxplots rep resent
out liers in the data. A one-way ANOVA was performed for both
analyses (referred to in Table 1) for each of the met ric items
discussed in subsec tion 3.5. The ANOVA test helps to determine
how the means of the groups differ with regards to the evaluation
met rics through different explanation types. If significant effect is
found, this means that there is a significant differen ce in the means
of at least two groups. However, the ANOVA test alone can not
determine which two groups differ. Therefore, for results with
significan ce, a Tukey HSD test was then carried out to determine
which groups were significan tly different as this test com pares all
pairwise differen ces for significan ce.
4.1
FER model un derstan ding
The one-way ANOVA test revealed no significan ce bet ween cohorts
in the Explanation Type part (𝐹(4, 195) = 0.8, 𝑝= 0.53) as well
as the Explanation Modality part (𝐹(3, 156) = 1.02, 𝑝= 0.39)
for the Human Predic tion (HP) Ac curacy. The HP Ac curacy was
determined by calculating the num ber of times the participant
got Question #1 correct (Hgtp) in the Survey Questions shown in
Figure 1. This shows that participants in this study were similar in
their ability to recognize emotions and in dicates that no specific
group had bet ter emotion recognition abilities which could be seen
as an advan tage over ot her groups.
In order to an swer H1.1 and H1.2 for Research Question 1
(RQ1), we analysed the Human Model Predic tion (Hmp) Ac curacy.
The Hmp Ac curacy was determined by calculating the num ber
of times the participant got Question #2 correct (Hmp) in the
Survey Questions shown in Figure 1. The one-way ANOVA test
revealed no significan ce bet ween cohorts in the Explanation Type
part (𝐹(4, 195) = 2.21, 𝑝= 0.07) as can be seen in Figure 5. However,
the test did show a large significan ce for the Explanation Modality
part (𝐹(3, 156) = 15.41, p < 0.001) as shown in Figure 6. A post-
hoc Tukey HSD test in dicates that the means for the FAU-T and
FAU-VT groups was significan tly higher (p = 0.0002 & p < 0.0001)
than the CON TROL group. The test also showed that the mean for
the FAU-VT group was significan tly higher (p = 0.0001) than the
FAU-V group.
Figure 5: Hmp Ac curacy bet ween groups with different XAI
met hods. No significan ce was found bet ween the groups.
4.2
Ap prop riate trust of the FER model
In order to an swer H2.1 and H2.2 for Research Question 2 (RQ2),
we then analyse the Ap prop riate Trust Score for each analysis. As
men tioned earlier in subsec tion 3.5, trust is con sidered ap prop riate
when the participant an swers that their guess of the emotion shown
on the image and the emotion the model will predict is the same
for correct images (where the model predic tion is the same as the
ground truth). Alternatively, trust is also con sidered ap prop riate
when the participant an swers that their guess of the emotion shown
on the image and the emotion the model will predict is different
for in correct images (where the model predic tion is different than
the ground truth).
The one-way ANOVA test revealed significan ce bet ween cohorts
in the Explanation Type part (𝐹(4, 195) = 11.65, p < 0.0001) (seen
in Figure 7) as well as the Explanation Modality part (𝐹(3, 156) =
17.26, p < 0.0001) (seen in Figure 8). For analysis part 1 (Explanation
Type), the post-hoc Tukey HSD test showed that the FAU-V met hod
en gen dered significan tly higher (p-value < 0.001) ap prop riate


Figure 6: Hmp Ac curacy bet ween groups with different XAI
modality. The FAU-VT met hod has higher Hmp ac curacy
than FAU-V and Con trol. FAU-T has higher Hmp ac curacy
than Con trol.
trust when com pared to the ot her visual-on ly explanation met hods
(LIME, Salien cy Map, SHAP) and the Con trol cohort. For analysis
part 2 (Explanation Modality), the test showed that all the FAU
modalities en gen dered significan tly higher (p-value < 0.0001)
ap prop riate trust as com pared to the con trol cohort.
Figure 7: Ap prop riate Trust bet ween groups for Met hod Type
(visual-on ly) Part. FAU-V type has higher ap prop riate trust
as com pared to all ot her visual-on ly types and the Con trol
cohort.
We excluded analytic graphs of the Trust Scale and Explanation
Satisfac tion Scale out comes as no significan ce was found with this
self-reported question naire met hod.
5
DISCUSSION
In this study we sought to un derstand if XAI met hods can help
end-users un derstand what a FER model will predict and when
to trust an FER model’s predic tion. We proposed a novel FAU-
based XAI met hod (DEFAULTS) and com pared it with current
XAI met hods. We first com pared different XAI met hods using
Figure 8: Ap prop riate Trust bet ween groups for Modality
Part. FAU-based met hods have higher ap prop riate trust as
com pared to the con trol cohort.
visual-on ly explanations. Second, we com pared different modalities,
namely visual and textual, wit hin the proposed met hod it self.
5.1
Im proving user un derstan ding of an FER
model with visual and textual explanations
When con sidering Research Question #1, which in vestigated the
effect of explanations in terms of model un derstan ding, the Hmp
Ac curacy results did not sup port H1.1, which hypot hesised that
participants shown the FAU-based visual explanations would have
higher alignment with the model’s predic tion as com pared to ot her
forms of visual explanations. No significant differen ce was found
using the one-way ANOVA test and thus this hypot hesis was
rejec ted. One possible reason for this could be that the in formation
relayed by the FAU-V met hod was purely provided through visual
aid, similar to the ot her XAI met hods, and that purely visual-on ly
tec hniques are not sufficient to educate end-users on the knowledge
required to determine what the model could predict. This is a
critical fin ding as most explanations generated on adap ted XAI
tec hniques on FER systems cen ters around providing visual-on ly
explanations which are clearly not significant enough to im prove
user un derstan ding of a FER model.
However, for the Hmp results in analysis #2 which in vestigates
H1.2, we see that the Hmp Ac curacy was significan tly higher with
the FAU visual+textual met hod (FAU-VT) com pared to the FAU
visual-on ly met hod (FAU-V) and the con trol cohort. In terestin gly,
the FAU textual-on ly met hod (FAU-T) also had a significan tly higher
Hmp Ac curacy com pared to the con trol cohort as well. This results
partially sup port H2.2: FAU met hods using both visual+textual
and the textual-on ly modalities are bet ter than no explanations
in helping the user un derstand the model bet ter. The FAU-VT
met hod shown as having a higher score than the FAU-V met hod also
in dicates that com bining the textual modality with visual en han ces
its performan ce and in creases user un derstan ding of the model
and subsequent predic tion. Therefore, sin ce FAU-based met hods
seem to lead users to un derstand the model bet ter, we find that the
textual com ponent of explanations are extremely im portant but
the com bination of both textual+visual would be the best in terms


of im proving user un derstan ding. This is an im portant fin ding
as, to the best of our knowledge, there are no ot her existing FER
explanation models that adopt this ap proach.
5.2
Im proving ap prop riate user trust in FER
model with FAU-based explanation
Next we con sider Research Question #2 which in vestigates which
explanation met hod and modality helps to en gen der ap prop riate
user trust in the model. The results, as shown in Figure 7, in dicate
that FAU-V en gen ders significan tly higher ap prop riate trust
com pared to the con trol cohort and ot her visual-based explanation
cohorts. This con firms H2.1: visual based FAU explanations can
en gen der higher ap prop riate demonstrated trust com pared to ot her
forms of visual explanations. This significan ce was not found in the
in vestigation in to user un derstan ding, in dicating that FAU visual
met hods may be helpful in providing a certain “in tuition” to users on
whet her or not a model is behaving well or misbehaving. However,
the visual-on ly FAU met hod is not enough to really im prove user
un derstan ding towards the in ner working of the model.
In terms of the different modalities and their effect on ap prop riate
trust levels, we refer to the results shown in Figure 8. The results
in dicate that although each different modality wit hin the FAU-based
met hod had a significan tly higher ap prop riate trust as com pared to
the con trol cohort, there was no significan ce bet ween the different
modalities it self. This suggests that, as a whole, the FAU-based
met hods are more suc cessful at en gen dering ap prop riate trust
as com pared to not having explanations at all. Users who were
provided with this explanation type had a bet ter un derstan ding of
when the model will suc ceed or fail.
In analysing these results we can see that, in general,
variants of the FAU-based met hod are bet ter at im proving user
un derstan ding or at least in tuition when a model is performing
well and when it is not, with the textual com ponent of FAU-
based explanations in dicating a bet ter im provement of user
un derstan ding. Furthermore, the com bination of textual and visual
explanation modalities significan tly im proves user knowledge
of the model com pared to each modality in dividually. This
aligns direc tly with our hypot hesis and initial thoughts where
explanations on FER using FAUs are essen tially groun ded in human
physiology while also being formal met hods of explaining. While
formal explanations guaran tees soun dness of explanations, it also
reduces the amount of redun dant in formation which could con fuse
users that in teract with these types of systems [29].
By focusing on explainable tec hniques that offer a prac tical and
naturalistic ac count of un derstan ding towards an AI model [34],
there is definitely room for im provement in im proving tran sparen cy
and un derstan ding [44] towards these AI models for end-users.
However, the lack in significant differen ce bet ween each cohort
with regards to the participant’s self-reported out comes of the
Trust Scale and Explanation Satisfac tion Scale shows that much
work is still needed to measure and im prove user’s trust and
satisfac tion of explanations in general. Ultimately, these in sights
and im provements to explanations should culminate in im proved
percep tion, relian ce and trust of users [8, 25, 37] which enable fair
use of FER tec hnology through raising awareness of the poten tial
biases and limitations of current FER systems [8, 9].
5.3
Limitations
Our work should be viewed in light of the following limitations. One
limitation of our work is that the experiments were con duc ted with
a sin gle type of stakeholder (laypeop le) and wit hin demograp hics
which speak En glish as a primary lan guage. This limits our scope
as we would not know how this explanation types affect user
un derstan ding and ap prop riate trust when tested on a more
multicultural and multilin gual group with diverse professional
backgrounds. We also plan to extend our work to a more in terac tive
set ting with some element of risk in volved as this would be a more
prac tical way of measuring trust towards a system. Furthermore, the
textual com ponent of FAUs denote some sort of “ac tion” whereas
the visual com ponent on ly relay static in formation. This could
be perceived as a limitation of com paring the visual and textual
rep resen tations as it may not be direc tly com parable. However, this
presents a clear advan tage of using textual FAU explanations as they
provide more con textual in formation com pared to static images. In
future com parisons, we plan to expand the visual rep resen tation
with animation to add an “ac tion” to visual explanation similar to
the textual com ponent. Last but not least, although we aimed for
a rep resen tative of each XAI types, we could not test all state-of-
the-art XAI met hods which are curren tly being developed. In the
future, we aim to provide more literature on XAI met hods to see
their relevan ce to explaining FER models and develop benchmarks
for evaluating XAI for FER.
6
CON CLUSION
We proposed DEFAULTS, a novel explanation met hod specifically
designed for facial expression recognition (FER), and evaluated
its effec tiveness in com parison with state-of-the-art XAI met hods.
We con duc ted an on line crowd-sourcing experiment to in vestigate
how different explanation met hods in fluen ce user un derstan ding
and ap prop riate trust in the model. Our fin dings revealed that,
com pared to participants wit hout explanations, those provided
with the DEFAULTS met hod using both visual and textual Facial
Ac tion Unit (FAU)-based explanations, had a bet ter un derstan ding
of the model. This was reflec ted in their higher ac curacy in
predic ting the model’s out puts, as well as their more ap prop riate
trust in the model’s ac curacy - trusting the FER model when it
was ac curate and wit hholding trust when it was inac curate. In
con trast, existing XAI met hods (LIME, SHAP, Salien cy Map) showed
no significant im provement in user un derstan ding or ap prop riate
trust. We also demonstrated that purely visual explanations for
FER models are in sufficient to en han ce user un derstan ding of how
the model operates. Our fin dings suggest that FAU-based met hods
offer greater in tuition for end-users to assess whet her the model is
performing well or misbehaving. This work is the first to explore
effec tive XAI met hods and explanation modalities for FER models,
highlighting the benefits of generating multimodal explanations
groun ded in emotion theories to im prove user un derstan ding
and ap prop riate trust in FER systems. Our research thus lays the
foun dation for the future develop ment of more explainable emotion-
aware systems.


REFEREN CES
[1] Ashraf Abdul, Jo Vermeulen, Dan ding Wang, Brian Y Lim, and Mohan
Kan kan halli. 2018. Trends and trajec tories for explainable, ac coun table and
in telligible systems: An hci research agen da. In Proceedings of the 2018 CHI
con feren ce on human fac tors in com puting systems. 1–18.
[2] Bader Aldughayfiq, Farzeen Ashfaq, NZ Jhan jhi, and Mamoona Humayun. 2023.
Explainable AI for retinoblastoma diagnosis: in terpreting deep learning models
with LIME and SHAP. Diagnostics 13, 11 (2023), 1932.
[3] Tadas Baltrusaitis, Amir Zadeh, Yao Chong Lim, and Louis-Philip pe Moren cy.
2018. Open face 2.0: Facial behavior analysis toolkit. In 2018 13th IEEE in ternational
con feren ce on automatic face & gesture recognition (FG 2018). IEEE, 59–66.
[4] Lisa Feldman Barrett, Ralph Adolphs, Stacy Marsella, Aleix M Martinez, and
Seth D Pollak. 2019. Emotional expressions recon sidered: Challen ges to in ferring
emotion from human facial movements. Psyc hological scien ce in the public in terest
20, 1 (2019), 1–68.
[5] Giovan na Castellano, Berardina De Carolis, and Nicola Mac chiarulo. 2023.
Automatic facial emotion recognition at the COVID-19 pan demic time.
Multimedia Tools and Ap plications 82, 9 (2023), 12751–12769.
[6] Arun Das and Paul Rad. 2020. Op portunities and challen ges in explainable
artificial in telligen ce (xai): A survey. ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:2006.11371 (2020).
[7] Guillermo
del
Castillo
Torres,
Maria Fran cesca Roig-Mai mó, Miquel Masca ró-Oliver, Esperança Amen gual-
Alcover, and Ramon Mas-San só. 2022. Un derstan ding How CNNs Recognize
Facial Expressions: A Case Study with LIME and CEM. Sen sors 23, 1 (2022), 131.
[8] Lauren ce Devillers. 2021. Human–robot in terac tions and affec tive com puting:
The et hical im plications. Robotics, AI, and Humanity: Scien ce, Et hics, and Policy
(2021), 205–211.
[9] Lauren ce Devillers and Roddy Cowie. 2023. Et hical con siderations on affec tive
com puting: an overview. Proc. IEEE (2023).
[10] Finale Doshi-Velez and Been Kim. 2017.
Towards a rigorous scien ce of
in terpretable mac hine learning. ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:1702.08608 (2017).
[11] Ben jamin D Douglas, Pat rick J Ewell, and Markus Brauer. 2023. Data quality
in on line human-subjects research: Com parisons bet ween MTurk, Prolific,
Cloud Research, Qualtrics, and SONA. Plos one 18, 3 (2023), e0279720.
[12] Lilian Edwards. 2021. The EU AI Act: a sum mary of its significan ce and scope.
Artificial In telligen ce (the EU AI Act) 1 (2021).
[13] Paul Ekman and Wallace V Friesen. 1978.
Facial ac tion coding system.
En viron men tal Psyc hology & Non verbal Behavior (1978).
[14] Dan-Mikael Ellin gsen, An drea Duggen to, Kylie Isen burg, Chan gjin Jung,
Jeungchan Lee, Jessica Gerber, Ishtiaq Mawla, Roberta Scloc co, Robert R Edwards,
John M Kelley, et al. 2022.
Patient–clinician brain con cordan ce un derlies
causal dynamics in non verbal com munication and negative affec tive expressivity.
Tran slational Psyc hiat ry 12, 1 (2022), 44.
[15] Peer Eyal, Rothschild David, Gordon An drew, Evernden Zak, and Damer
Ekaterina. 2021. Data quality of plat forms and panels for on line behavioral
research. Behavior research met hods (2021), 1–20.
[16] Prashant Gohel, Priyan ka Singh, and Manoran jan Mohan ty. 2021. Explainable
AI: current status and future direc tions. ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:2107.07045 (2021).
[17] Mara Graziani, Lidia Dut kiewicz, Davide Calvaresi, Jo sé Pereira Amorim, Katerina
Yordanova, Mor Vered, Rahul Nair, Pedro Hen riques Abreu, Tobias Blan ke, Valeria
Pulignano, et al. 2023. A global taxonomy of in terpretable AI: unifying the
terminology for the tec hnical and social scien ces. Artificial in telligen ce review 56,
4 (2023), 3473–3504.
[18] Muham mad Anas Hasnul, Nor Azlina Ab Aziz, Salem Alelyani, Mohamed
Mohana, and Azlan Abd Aziz. 2021.
Elec trocardiogram-based emotion
recognition systems and their ap plications in healthcare—A review. Sen sors
21, 15 (2021), 5015.
[19] Robert R Hoffman, Shane T Mueller, Gary Klein, and Jordan Lit man. 2018. Met rics
for explainable AI: Challen ges and prospects. ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:1812.04608
(2018).
[20] Maryam Imani and Gholam Ali Mon tazer. 2019. A survey of emotion recognition
met hods with em phasis on E-Learning en viron ments. Journal of Net work and
Com puter Ap plications 147 (2019), 102423.
[21] Sun bin Kim and Hyeon cheol Kim. 2019.
Deep explanation model for
facial expression recognition through facial ac tion coding unit. In 2019 IEEE
In ternational Con feren ce on Big Data and Smart Com puting (Big Comp). IEEE, 1–4.
[22] Abhiram Kolli, Alireza Fasih, Fadi Al Mac hot, and Kyan doghere Kyamakya.
2011. Non-in trusive car driver’s emotion recognition using thermal camera.
In Proceedings of the Joint INDS’11 & ISTET’11. IEEE, 1–5.
[23] Dimit rios Kollias and Stefanos Zafeiriou. 2018. Aff-wild2: Exten ding the aff-wild
database for affect recognition. ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:1811.07770 (2018).
[24] Louisa Kulke, Den nis Feyerabend, and An nekat hrin Schacht. 2020. A com parison
of the Affec tiva i Motions Facial Expression Analysis Software with EMG for
iden tifying facial expressions of emotion. Fron tiers in Psyc hology 11 (2020), 329.
[25] Pan telis Linardatos, Vasilis Papastefanopoulos, and Sotiris Kot sian tis. 2020.
Explainable ai: A review of mac hine learning in terpretability met hods. En tropy
23, 1 (2020), 18.
[26] Zac hary C Lip ton. 2018. The myt hos of model in terpretability: In mac hine
learning, the con cept of in terpretability is both im portant and slip pery. Queue
16, 3 (2018), 31–57.
[27] Pat rick Lucey, Jeffrey F Cohn, Takeo Kanade, Jason Saragih, Zara Am badar, and
Iain Mat thews. 2010. The exten ded cohn-kanade dataset (ck+): A com plete dataset
for ac tion unit and emotion-specified expression. In 2010 ieee com puter society
con feren ce on com puter vision and pat tern recognition-workshops. IEEE, 94–101.
[28] Scott M Lun dberg and Su-In Lee. 2017. A unified ap proach to in terpreting model
predic tions. Advan ces in neural in formation processing systems 30 (2017).
[29] Joao Marques-Silva and Alexey Ignatiev. 2022. Delivering trustworthy AI through
formal XAI. In Proceedings of the AAAI Con feren ce on Artificial In telligen ce, Vol. 36.
12342–12350.
[30] Tim Miller. 2019. Explanation in artificial in telligen ce: In sights from the social
scien ces. Artificial in telligen ce 267 (2019), 1–38.
[31] Tim Miller. 2022.
Are we measuring trust correc tly in explainability,
in terpretability, and tran sparen cy research? ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:2209.00651
(2022).
[32] Gregory Mone. 2015. Sen sing emotions. Com mun. ACM 58, 9 (2015), 15–16.
[33] San jeev Nahulanthran, Mor Vered, Leimin Tian, and Dana Kulić. 2024. "I think you
need help! Here’s why": Un derstan ding the Effect of Explanations on Automatic
Facial Expression Recognition. In Proceedings of the 12th In ternational Con feren ce
on Affec tive Com puting & In telligent In terac tion (ACII).
[34] An drés Páez. 2019. The pragmatic turn in explainable artificial in telligen ce (XAI).
Minds and Mac hines 29, 3 (2019), 441–459.
[35] Chan dana Panati, Simon Wagner, and Stefan Brüggen wirth. 2022.
Feature
relevan ce evaluation using grad-CAM, LIME and SHAP for deep learning SAR
data classification. In Proceedings of the 23rd In ternational Radar Sym posium (IRS).
IEEE, 457–462.
[36] Nazil Perveen and Chalavadi Krishna Mohan. 2020. Con figural Rep resen tation of
Facial Ac tion Units for Spon taneous Facial Expression Recognition in the Wild..
In VISIGRAPP (4: VISAPP). 93–102.
[37] Rosalind W. Picard. 2003. Affec tive com puting: challen ges. In ternational Journal
of Human-Com puter Studies 59, 1 (2003), 55–64. https://doi. org/10.1016/S1071-
5819(03)00052-1 Ap plications of Affec tive Com puting in Human-Com puter
In terac tion.
[38] Manish Rat hod, Chirag Dalvi, Kulveen Kaur, Shruti Patil, Shilpa Gite, Pooja Kamat,
Ketan Kotec ha, Ajith Abraham, and Lubna Abdelkareim Gabralla. 2022. Kids’
Emotion Recognition Using Various Deep-Learning Models with Explainable AI.
Sen sors 22, 20 (2022), 8066.
[39] Marco Tulio Ribeiro, Sameer Singh, and Carlos Guestrin. 2016. " Why should i
trust you?" Explaining the predic tions of any classifier. In Proceedings of the 22nd
ACM SIGKDD in ternational con feren ce on knowledge discovery and data mining.
1135–1144.
[40] Elena Ryumina, Denis Dresvyan skiy, and Alexey Karpov. 2022. In search of a
robust facial expressions recognition model: A large-scale visual cross-corpus
study. Neurocom puting 514 (2022), 435–450.
[41] Muham mad Sajjad, Man soor Nasir, Fath U Min Ullah, Khan Muham mad,
Arun Kumar San gaiah, and Sung Wook Baik. 2019. Raspberry Pi assisted facial
expression recognition framework for smart security in law-en forcement services.
In formation Scien ces 479 (2019), 416–431.
[42] Ram prasaath R Selvaraju, Mic hael Cogswell, Abhishek Das, Ramakrishna
Vedan tam, Devi Parikh, and Dhruv Bat ra. 2017. Grad-cam: Visual explanations
from deep net works via gradient-based localization. In Proceedings of the IEEE
in ternational con feren ce on com puter vision. 618–626.
[43] Karen Simonyan, An drea Vedaldi, and An drew Zisserman. 2013. Deep in side
con volutional net works: Visualising image classification models and salien cy
maps. ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:1312.6034 (2013).
[44] Leimin Tian, Sharon Oviatt, Mic hal Muszyn ski, Brent C. Cham berlain, Jen nifer
Healey, and Akane Sano. 2022. Ap plied Affec tive Com puting (1 ed.). Vol. 41.
Association for Com puting Mac hinery, New York, NY, USA.
[45] Jasper van der Waa, Tjeerd Schoon derwoerd, Jurriaan van Diggelen, and Mark
Neerincx. 2020. In terpretable con fiden ce measures for decision sup port systems.
In ternational Journal of Human-Com puter Studies 144 (2020), 102493.
[46] Mor Vered, Piers Howe, Tim Miller, Liz Sonen berg, and Eduardo Velloso. 2020.
Demand-driven tran sparen cy for monitoring in telligent agents. IEEE Tran sac tions
on Human-Mac hine Systems 50, 3 (2020), 264–275.
[47] Mor Vered, Tali Livni, Piers Douglas Lionel Howe, Tim Miller, and Liz Sonen berg.
2023. The effects of explanations on automation bias. Artificial In telligen ce 322
(2023), 103952.
[48] Giulia Vilone and Luca Lon go. 2020.
Explainable artificial in telligen ce: a
systematic review. ar Xiv prep rint ar Xiv:2006.00093 (2020).
[49] Daniel S Weld and Gagan Ban sal. 2019. The challen ge of crafting in telligible
in telligen ce. Com mun. ACM 62, 6 (2019), 70–79.
[50] Jacob O Wobbrock. 2012. Seven research con tributions in HCI. studies 1, 1 (2012),
52–80.
[51] Zhihong Zeng, Maja Pan tic, Glenn I Roisman, and Thomas S Huang. 2007. A
survey of affect recognition met hods: audio, visual and spon taneous expressions.
In Proceedings of the 9th in ternational con feren ce on Multimodal in terfaces. 126–
133.