ar Xiv:2503.18062v1 [cs. CL] 23 Mar 2025
In vestigating Recent Large Lan guage Models for
Viet namese Mac hine Reading Com prehen sion
Anh Duc Nguyen, Hieu Minh Phi, Anh Viet Ngo, Long Hai Trieu, Thai Phuong Nguyen
University of En gineering and Tec hnology - Viet nam National University
(22022504, 21020200, 22022508, thlong, thainp)@vnu. edu. vn
Abstract—Large
Lan guage
Models
(LLMs)
have
shown
remarkable proficien cy in Mac hine Reading Com prehen sion
(MRC)
tasks; however,
their effec tiveness
forlow-resource
lan guages like Viet namese remains largely unexplored. In this
paper, we fine-tune and evaluate two state-of-the-art LLMs:
Llama 3 (8B parameters) and Gem ma (7B parameters), on
Vi MMRC, a Viet namese MRC dataset. By utilizing Quan tized
Low-Rank Adap tation (QLo RA), we efficien tly fine-tune these
models and com pare their performan ce against powerful LLM-
based baselines. Although our fine-tuned models are smaller than
GPT-3 and GPT-3.5, they out perform both traditional BERT-
based ap proac hes and these larger models. This demonstrates
the effec tiveness of our fine-tuning process, showcasing how
modern LLMs can surpass the capabilities of older models like
BERT while still being suitable for dep loyment in resource-
constrained en viron ments. Through in ten sive analyses, we explore
various aspects of model performan ce, providing valuable in sights
in to adap ting LLMs for low-resource lan guages like Viet namese.
Our study con tributes to the advan cement of natural lan guage
processing in low-resource lan guages, and we make our fine-
tuned models public ly available at: https://huggin gface. co/iaiuet.
In dex
Terms—Large
lan guage
models,
mac hine
reading,
com prehen sion, fine-tuning models
I. IN TRODUC TION
Mac hine Reading Com prehen sion (MRC) has emerged as
a critical area of research in Natural Lan guage Processing
(NLP), pushing the boun daries of mac hine in telligen ce in
un derstan ding and processing human lan guage. MRC tasks,
which in volve the com plex in terplay bet ween a passage, a
question, and an an swer, challen ge mac hines to com prehend
text
an dac curately
respond
toqueries
based
on that
un derstan ding [1], [2]. This capability is fun damen tal to
advan ced NLP ap plications and serves as a benchmark for
lan guage un derstan ding and reasoning abilities in artificial
in telligen ce systems. For in stan ce, con sider the exam ple shown
in Fig. 1, which illustrates a typical MRC task. The MRC
systems must un derstand the passage and ac curately iden tify
the correct an swer from the given op tions. Such tasks not on ly
test the system’s com prehen sion abilities but also its capacity
for reasoning and con textual un derstan ding [2].
In recent years, large lan guage models (LLMs) have
demonstrated remarkable proficien cy ac ross various NLP
tasks, in cluding MRC, ac hieving state-of-the-art (SOTA)
results [3]–[5].
However, the performan ce of these models often diminishes
when scaled down to smaller parameter sizes, particularly
Referen ce:
Bố đi câu về, không một lần nào là chúng tôi không có
quà.
Mở thúng câu ra là cả một thế giới dưới nước: cà cuống,
niềng niễng đực, niềng niễng cái bò nhộn nhạo. Hoa sen
đỏ, nhị sen vàng tỏa hương thơm lừng. Những con cá
sộp, cá chuối quẫy tóe nước, mắt thao láo...
(When Dad went fishing, he never came back wit hout
gifts for us.
Opening the fishing basket was like revealing a whole
un derwater world: giant water bugs, male and female
dam selflies wriggling around. Red lotus flowers, yellow
lotus stamens spreading a fragrant aroma. Big fish and
snakehead fish splashing water, their eyes bulging... )
Question: Quà của bố có những gì sau những buổi đi
câu về? (What are dad’s gifts after returning from fishing
trips?)
Op tions:
A. Cà cuống, niềng niễng, hoa sen, cá sộp và cá chuối.
(Water bugs, dam selflies, lotus, big fish and snakehead
fish)
B. Con chim, con châu chấu và con bướm. (Bird,
grasshop per and but terfly)
C. Con khỉ, con thỏ, con cò hương và con khướu.
(Mon key, rabbit, stork and babbler)
D. Con xập xành, con muỗm và con dế. (Giant cric kets,
mole cric kets and male cric kets)
Fig. 1. An exam ple of MRC task (En glish tran slation is in italics).
for lan guages with fewer resources than En glish [6]. This
challen ge is particularly evident in Viet namese, a lan guage
with relatively fewer NLP resources com pared to En glish.
The in troduc tion of the Vi MMRC dataset [7] has provided
a stan dardized benchmark for evaluating and im proving
Viet namese MRC systems. However, the effec tiveness of
SOTA LLMs on this dataset remains unexplored, highlighting
the need for im provement in Viet namese MRC capabilities.
To address this gap, our study focuses on evaluating
and fine-tuning two cut ting-edge LLMs, i. e., Llama 3 (8B


TABLE I
STATISTICS OF DATASET VIMMRC
Grade
1
2
3
4
5
All
Num ber of texts
10
70
188
99
120
417
Vocabulary size
595
3,325
4,666
5,006
5,702
10,099
Num ber of questions
60
514
759
709
741
2,783
parameters) [8] and Gem ma (7B parameters) [9], on the
Vi MMRC dataset. We aim to demonstrate the necessity
and effec tiveness of fine-tuning LLMs to en han ce their
performan ce in Viet namese MRC tasks. Our results show that
fine-tuned base LLMs ac hieve significan tly higher ac curacy
com pared to their pre-fine-tuned versions. Notably, our fine-
tuned models, despite having relatively small parameter
counts, out perform much larger models such as GPT-3 and
GPT-3.5, demonstrating the efficien cy and effec tiveness of
our fine-tuning process. This research not on ly con tributes
to the advan cement of Viet namese NLP but also provides
valuable in sights in to the adap tability of LLMs for specific
lan guages and tasks. Our fin dings have poten tial im plications
for educational tec hnology, in formation ret rieval systems, and
ot her AI-driven ap plications in Viet namese-lan guage con texts.
The main con tributions of this paper are as follows:
• Several SOTA LLM models are evaluated and finetuned
using the Quan tized Low-Rank Adap tation (QLo RA) on
a Viet namese MRC task, which are efficient in terms
of com putational resources due to fewer parameters
but ac hieve SOTA performan ce and out perform several
powerful baselines.
• In ten sive analyses are con duc ted on the Viet namese MRC
task, which we reveal op portunities and challen ges for
adap ting LLMs to low-resource lan guages.
• Our
finetuned
models
arepublic ly
released
forcom munity
tofurther
advan ce
LLM-based
MRCtask as well as for Viet namese NLP ap plications.
II. MODELS
In order to evaluate recent LLMs on Viet namese MRC
task, we selec ted several models based on their advan ced
capabilities and public ac cessibility in cluding: Llama 3 [8]
and Gem ma [9]. First, these models are open ly available.
Second, both Llama 3 and Gem ma offer base and instruc tion-
tuned variants, as well as versions with reduced parameter
counts. The availability of smaller model sizes is particularly
advan tageous for our experimen tal setup, as it enables
efficient fine-tuning on the Vi MMRC dataset using limited
com putational resources.
III. EXPERIMEN TAL SET TINGS
A. Llama 3
Llama 3 [8] is published by Meta AI and available in 8
billion (8B) and 70 billion (70B) parameter versions. Building
on the foun dation laid by earlier Llama models [10], Llama
3 is designed to ac hieve high-quality performan ce through
exten sive pre-training data rat her than sheer parameter count.
TABLE II
CHAT TEM PLATE TO PROMPT THE MODEL FOR AN SWERING
MULTIP LE-CHOICE QUESTIONS
user: Use the following referen ce to an swer the given multip le-choice
question:
Referen ce: <Referen ce>
Question: <Question>
A. <Op tion 1>
B. <Op tion 2>
C. <Op tion 3>
D. <Op tion 4>
model: <An swer> (A, B, C, or D)
TABLE III
HYPERPARAMETERS
Hyper-parameter
Value
Batch Size
64
Epochs
3
Sequen ce Length
8192
Warm-up Steps
5
Weight Decay
0.01
Op timizer
Adam W
Learning rate scheduler
cosine
Com pared to its predecessor Llama 2, Llama 3 features
significant up grades, in cluding a tokenizer capable of han dling
128k tokens and training on a massive 15 trillion tokens, which
is seven times the data used for Llama 2. This dataset in cludes
5% non-En glish data, en suring a diverse and com prehen sive
training process. Llama 3 also un dergoes high-quality filtering
to en han ce its overall performan ce, making it a powerful tool
for various NLP ap plications. We em ploy the 8B version of
Llama 3 in our study, and will elaborate on its performan ce
in Sec tion III.
B. Gem ma
Gem ma [9] is a family of lightweight, SOTA open
models from Google Deep Mind, derived from the Gemini
research and tec hnology. Available in 2 billion (2B) and 7
billion (7B) parameter versions, Gem ma demonstrates robust
performan ce ac ross various academic benchmarks for lan guage
un derstan ding, reasoning, and safety. Notably, the 7B model
is op timized for efficient dep loyment on GPU and TPU, while
the 2B model is designed for CPU and on-device ap plications.
Gem ma models are trained on up to 6 trillion tokens, primarily
from En glish web documents, mat hematics, and code. This
exten sive pre-training, com bined with a high-quality filtering
process, en sures the models’ strong generalist capabilities and
SOTA performan ce in numerous text domains. We utilize the
7B version of Gem ma in our study due to its feasibility on
GPU, and will elaborate on its performan ce in Sec tion III.
C. Dataset
In this paper, we utilize the Vi MMRC dataset [7], a
pioneering corpus for Viet namese multip le-choice mac hine
reading com prehen sion (MRC). It com prises 2,783 question-
an swer pairs extrac ted from 417 texts in ten ded for students
from 1st to 5th grade. The distribution of texts for different


TABLE IV
RESULTS OF OUR FINE-TUNED MODELS ON VIMMRC
Model
Size
Ac curacy
BERTology
179M
82.29
Llama 2
7B
33.46
BLOOMZ
7.1B
79.96
GPT-3
175B
77.04
GPT-3.5
175B
82.88
Llama 3Instruc ted
8B
84.21
Gem ma Instruc ted
7B
84.94
Llama 3Base
8B
84.93
Gem ma Base
7B
87.11
grades is demonstrated in Table I. Each text in the Vi MMRC
is curated to test various levels of com prehen sion, from basic
fac tual recall to more com plex reasoning, reflec ting the diverse
challen ges in natural lan guage un derstan ding. By focusing on
multip le-choice questions, the dataset allows for stan dardized
evaluation of MRC systems, facilitating benchmarking and
com parison ac ross different models and ap proac hes. The
Vi MMRC dataset was partitioned in to: 1,975 pairs for training
set, 294 pairs for develop ment set, and 514 pairs for test set.
D. Fine-tune set tings
In this
study,
weem ploy
the
Quan tized
Low-Rank
Adap tation (QLo RA) met hod [11] to fine-tune our lan guage
models. QLo RA is a parameter-efficient met hod for adap ting
pre-trained lan guage models by utilizing quan tization and low-
rank adap tation. This tec hnique reduces the com putational
cost and memory foot print, making it feasible to han dle large
models on low com putational resources.
We adopt the Un sloth tem plate [12] for our QLora
im plemen tation. Following their recom men dations, we set the
learning rates to 5e−5 for Gem ma and 2e−4 for Llama, with
additional hyperparameters detailed in Table III.
Our im plemen tation em ploys a struc tured chat tem plate
(Table II) to prompt the model for an swering multip le-choice
questions based on a given referen ce. The tem plate follows a
con sistent format to en sure clarity and effec tiveness. The chat
tem plate con sists of a clear distin ction bet ween user in put and
model out put The user in put sec tion provides the necessary
con text for the model, in cluding the referen ce text and the
multip le-choice question with op tions labeled A, B, C, and D.
The model’s respon se is expec ted in the form of selec ting one
of these op tions. This struc tured format helps stream line the
in terac tion and en sures that the model’s respon ses are aligned
with the user’s expec tations.
E. Baseline models
To evaluate the effec tiveness of our fine-tuned models,
we com pare the performan ce of our models against several
powerful baseline models as follows.
• BERTology [13]: This model in tegrates the pre-trained
m BERT [14], a multi-step at ten tion mec hanism (MAN),
and natural lan guage in feren ce (NLI). Initially, the pre-
trained model un dergoes fine-tuning using a multi-stage
multi-task learning tec hnique [15]. Following this, a
TABLE V
RESULTS ON VIMMRC WITH FINETUNED MODELS (WIT HOUT
FINETUNING: THE ORIGINAL MODELS; FINETUNED: OUR MODELS AFTER
FINETUNED; BET TER SCORES ARE IN BOLD.)
Model
Wit hout Finetuning
Finetuned
Llama 3Instruc ted
56.80
84.21
Gem ma Instruc ted
80.39
84.94
Llama 3Base
N/A
84.93
Gem ma Base
N/A
87.11
coarse-tuning stage is em ployed for the NLI task. Finally,
a MAN is im plemen ted as a top-level classifier to
com pute the at ten tion score bet ween the reading passage
and the question-op tion pairs.
• GPT-3 & GPT-3.5 [16]: GPT-3 is 10 times larger than
any previous non-sparse lan guage model. This model
demonstrates strong performan ce ac ross numerous NLP
datasets. GPT-3.5 builds upon this foun dation, ac hieving
superior results and surpassing previous SOTA models.
They were evaluated wit hout any gradient up dates or fine-
tuning, relying solely on text in terac tions.
• Llama 2 [10]: This is a foun dational lan guage model
series ran ging from 7 billion to 70 billion parameters. It
is notable for its training on trillions of tokens, exclusively
using public ly ac cessible datasets, thereby eliminating
the need for inac cessible data. This demonstrates the
poten tial of training top-tier models with open ly available
resources, ac hieving excellent performan ce ac ross various
tasks.
• Bloom Z [17]: Bloom Z utilizes multitask prom pted fine-
tuning (MTF) to adapt pre-trained multilin gual BLOOM
and m T5 model families. This met hod en han ces the
models’ ability to han dle tasks ac ross multip le lan guages,
leveraging En glish prompts for fine-tuning. It im proves
performan ce on both En glish and non-En glish tasks,
ac hieving SOTA results in scenarios where no task-
specific training data is available.
• Llama3Base,
Llama3Instruc ted,
Gem ma Base,
Gem ma Instruc ted: our finetuned models on the Llama 3
and Gem ma base and instruc tion variants.
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
A. Com parison with baselines
Table IV com pares the performan ce of our fine-tuned
models with the baseline models on the Vi MMRC dataset,
with performan ce measured by ac curacy as per [18]. While
our fine-tuned models significan tly out perform BERT-based
ap proac hes, we ac knowledge the differen ce in model sizes. Yet,
the dramatic im provements we ac hieved through fine-tuning
suggest that our superior results stem from more than just
larger parameter counts – our models substan tially out perform
BERT even when it uses advan ced tec hniques like NLI fine-
tuning and multi-step at ten tion.


TABLE VI
SAM PLE OF BIAS MITIGATION
Sam ple
En glish tran slation
Passage
Sau một chuyến đi xa, người ông mang về bốn quả đào. Ông bảo
vợ và các cháu: Quả to này xin phần bà. Ba quả nhỏ hơn phần các
cháu. Bữa cơm chiều hôm ấy, ông hỏi các cháu: Thế nào, các cháu
thấy đào có ngon không? Cậu bé Xuân nói: Đào có vị rất ngon và
mùi thật là thơm. Cháu đã đem hạt trồng vào một cái vò. Chẳng bao
lâu, nó sẽ mọc thành một cây đào to đấy, ông nhỉ? Mai sau cháu
sẽ làm vườn giỏi. - Ông hài lòng nhận xét. Cô bé Vân nói với vẻ
tiếc rẻ: Đào ngon quá, cháu ăn hết mà vẫn thèm. Còn hạt thì cháu
vứt đi rồi. Ôi cháu của ông còn thơ dại quái. Thấy Việt chỉ chăm
chú nhìn vào tấm khăn trải bàn, ông ngạc nhiên hỏi: Còn Việt, sao
cháu chẳng nói gì thế? Cháu ấy ạ? Cháu mang đào cho Sơn. Bạn
ấy bịốm. Nhưng bạn ấy không muốn nhận. Cháu đặt quả đào lên
trên giường rồi trốn về. Cháu là người có tấm lòng nhân hậu! - Ông
lão thốt lên và xoa đầu đứa cháu nhỏ.
After a long trip, the gran dfat her brought back four peac hes. He told
his wife and grandchildren: This big peach is for your gran dmot her.
The three smaller ones are for you children. At din ner that evening,
the gran dfat her asked his grandchildren: How did you like the
peac hes? Xuan said: The peac hes were very delicious and smelled
won derful. I plan ted the pit in a pot. Soon, it will grow in to a big
peach tree, right, Gran dpa? You will become a great gardener when
you grow up, - the gran dfat her remarked, pleased. Lit tle Van, with
a regret ful expression, said: The peach was so delicious that I ate
it all and still wan ted more. I threw the pit away. Oh, my lit tle
one is still so naive. Seeing Viet staring in ten tly at the tablec loth,
the gran dfat her asked in surprise: And Viet, why haven’t you said
anyt hing? Me? I gave my peach to Son. He’s sick. But he didn’t
want to take it. So, I placed the peach on his bed and sneaked away.
You have a kind heart! - the old man exclaimed, pat ting his lit tle
gran dson on the head.
Question
Trong ba đứa cháu, ai là đứa cháu được ông nhận xét là còn thơ
dại?
In three children, who is claimed as in nocent?
An swers
A. Vân
B. Việt
C. Xuân
D. Cả3 bạn trên
A. Van
B. Viet
C. Xuan
D. All of the above
Predic tions
Correct an swer: A
BERTology: D
Llama 3: A
Gem ma: A
Notes: Com pared to the BERT-based model, our fine-tuned models did not show a bias towards the an swer "All of the above."
B. Advan tages with small-size models
It is also worth noting that our fine-tuned models, with
relatively small parameter counts, can out perform much larger
models such as GPT-3 and GPT-3.5. This demonstrates
the efficien cy and effec tiveness of our fine-tuning process,
which allows smaller models to ac hieve higher ac curacy than
these larger, more resource-in ten sive models. It also suggests
significant poten tial for more efficient dep loyment of their
ap plications in resource-constrained en viron ments.
C. Im provement from fine-tuned models
Table V highlights the com parison bet ween the models
before and after fine-tuning. We do not evaluate the base
models before fine-tuning because they do not con sisten tly
an swer our questions in a zero-shot set ting. The ac curacy
of the base LLMs after fine-tuning is substan tially higher
than before fine-tuning. This highlights the positive im pact
of adap ting the models specifically to the Vi MMRC dataset,
leading to im proved com prehen sion and question-an swering
capabilities in Viet namese.
In terestin gly, the fine-tuned base LLMs ac hieve bet ter
ac curacy com pared to their instruc tion-tuned coun terparts.
The base model Gem ma performs significan tly bet ter than
the instruc ted version. We speculate that this is because
the instruc ted Gem ma is trained exclusively on En glish
data, lac king the multi-lan guage data necessary for op timal
performan ce on the Vi MMRC dataset. Mean while, the base
Llama 3 model also surpasses its instruc tion-tuned version,
though the differen ce is marginal. This could be because the
instruc ted Llama is primarily op timized for chat abilities and
toxicity mitigation, which are less relevant for the mac hine
reading com prehen sion tasks.
D. Bias mitigation
We in ferred our fine-tuned Llama 3Base and Gem ma Base
models on the Vi MMRC test dataset to iden tify positive
im provements, un derstand the nature of their performan ce, and
pin point areas where they struggle. These models show clear
im provements over the BERTology model in terms of bias.
Un like the BERTology model, which tends to choose "All of
the above" as the an swer [13], our models do not exhibit this
bias, as demonstrated in Table VI.
E. Error analysis
We further in vestigate these models via error analyses, as
shown in Table VII. The main source of errors is the difficulty
in iden tifying the most suitable an swer for questions that
require reasoning. Reasoning can be particularly challen ging
for LLMs because it often in volves grasping the un derlying
message of an en tire story or iden tifying the specific type of
a poem based on struc tural charac teristics such as word count.
For in stan ce, in Sam ple 2 of Table V, both models failed to
correc tly iden tify the poetic form (four syllables) used in the
poem, in stead in correc tly choosing the "six-eight" op tion.
Additionally,
they
have
trouble
un derstan ding
deep
figurative lan guage. This highlights the com plexity of tasks
in volving nuan ced and con text-depen dent lan guage. As shown
in Sam ple 3, both models struggled to ac curately in terpret
Un cle Ho’s charac ter from the poem, with Llama 3 choosing
"a very sim ple person" and Gem ma selec ting "great ly loved
his coun try" in stead of the correct an swer that he "loved
nature very much".
Ourmodels
also
sometimes
struggle
with
correc tly
an swering parts of speech questions, in dicating a need for
bet ter un derstan ding of gram matical nuan ces. This suggests
areas where further fine-tuning and en han cement could
im prove model performan ce. For exam ple, in Sam ple 4, both


TABLE VII
ERROR ANALYSES
Sam ple
En glish tran slation
Passage 1
Bố đi câu về, không một lần nào là chúng tôi không có quà. Mở
thúng câu ra là cả một thế giới dưới nước: cà cuống, niềng niễng
đực, niềng niễng cái bò nhộn nhạo. Hoa sen đỏ, nhị sen vàng tỏa
hương thơm lừng. Những con cá sộp, cá chuối quẫy tóe nước, mắt
thao láo... Bố đi cắt tóc về, cũng không lần nào chúng tôi không có
quà. Mở hòm dụng cụ ra là cả một thế giới mặt đất: con xập xành,
con muỗm to xù, mốc thếch, ngó ngoáy. Hấp dẫn nhất là những con
dế lạo xạo trong các vỏ bao diêm: toàn dế đực, cánh xoăn, gáy vang
nhà và chọi nhau phải biết. Quà của bố làm anh em tôi giàu quá!
When Dad went fishing, he never came back wit hout gifts for us.
Opening the fishing basket was like revealing a whole un derwater
world: giant water bugs, male and female dam selflies wriggling
around. Red lotus flowers and yellow lotus stamens spread a
fragrant aroma. Big fish and snakehead fish splashed water, their
eyes bulging. When Dad went for a haircut, he never came back
wit hout gifts for us. Opening the toolbox was like revealing a whole
terrestrial world: giant cric kets and clum sy mole cric kets wriggling
around. The most fascinating were the chirping cric kets in the
matchboxes: all male cric kets with curly wings, chirping loudly and
fiercely fighting each ot her. Dad’s gifts made my siblings and me
feel so rich!
Question
Những món quà mà bố mang về cho các con nói lên điều gì?
What do the gifts that fat her brings home for the children say?
An swers
A. Bố rất yêu thương hai anh em.
B. Bố rất giỏi đi câu và cắt tóc.
C. Bố rất thích đồng quê và sông nước.
D. Bố rất thích tặng quà.
A. He loves his children.
B. He’s good at fishing and hairdressing.
C. He loves coun tryside.
D. He likes gifting.
Predic tions
Correct An swer: A
Llama 3: C
Gem ma: C
Passage 2
Bút chì xanh đỏ
Em gọt hai đầu
Em thử hai màu
Xanh tươi, đỏ thắm.
Blue and red pen cil
I sharpen both ends
I try both colors
Bright green, vivid red.
Question
Bài thơ đã sử dụng thể thơ nào để viết?
What poetic form was used to write the poem?
An swers
A. Lục bát.
B. Tự do.
C. Năm chữ.
D. Bốn chữ.
A. six-eight.
B. free verse.
C. five syllables.
D. four syllables.
Predic tions
Correct An swer: D
Llama 3: A
Gem ma: A
Passage 3
Trong tù không rượu cũng không hoa,
Cảnh đẹp đêm nay, khó hững hờ.
Người ngắm trăng soi ngoài cửa sổ,
Trăng nhòm khe cửa ngắm nhà thơ.
In prison wit hout wine or flowers,
Tonight’s beauty, hard to disregard.
Gazing at the moon through the win dow bars,
The moon peers through, wat ching the poet’s heart
Question
Bài thơ này cho thấy Bác Hồ là người như thế nào?
What does this poem show about Un cle Ho’s charac ter?
An swers
A. Bác Hồ là người rất yêu nước.
B. Bác Hồ rất yêu thiên nhiên.
C. Bác Hồ là người rất giản dị.
D. Bác Hồ rất dũng cảm.
A. Un cle Ho great ly loved his coun try.
B. Un cle Ho loved nature very much.
C. Un cle Ho was a very sim ple person.
D. Un cle Ho was very brave.
Predic tions
Correct An swer: B
Llama 3: C
Gem ma: A
Passage 4
Chiều hôm ấy có một em gái nhỏ đứng áp trán vào tủ kính cửa hàng
của Pi-e, nhìn từng đồ vật như muốn kiếm thứ gì. Bỗng em ngửng
đầu lên: - Cháu có thể xem chuỗi ngọc lam này không ạ? Pi-e lấy
chuỗi ngọc, đưa cho cô bé. Cô bé thốt lên: - Đẹp quá! Xin chú gói
lại cho cháu! Pi-e ngạc nhiên: - Ai sai cháu đi mua? - Cháu mua
tặng chị cháu nhân lễ Nô-en. Chị đã nuôi cháu từ khi mẹ cháu mất.
- Cháu có bao nhiêu tiền? Cô bé mở khăn tay ra, đổ lên bàn một
nắm xu: - Cháu đã đập con lợn đất đấy! Pi-e trầm ngâm nhìn cô bé.
Rồi vừa lúi húi gỡ mảnh giấy ghi giá tiền, anh vừa hỏi: - Cháu tên
gì? - Cháu là Gioan. Anh đưa Gioan chuỗi ngọc gói trong bao lụa
đỏ: - Đừng đánh rơi nhé! Cô bé mỉm cười rạng rỡ, chạy vụt đi...
One afternoon, a lit tle girl stood at Pierre’s shop win dow, examining
items as if searching for somet hing. She asked to see a blue nec klace.
Pierre showed it to her. Delighted, she requested it be wrap ped.
When asked who sent her, she explained it was a Christmas gift for
her sister who raised her after their mot her’s death. She em ptied her
savings on to the coun ter. Pierre, moved, removed the price tag and
asked her name. "I am Jean ne." she rep lied. He then han ded her the
nec klace in a red silk bag, said "Don’t lose it on the way home.".
She smiled brightly and ran off....
Question
Từ"cháu" trong câu "Cháu là Gioan" đóng vai trò cú pháp gì?
What syn tac tic role does the word "I" play in the sen ten ce "I am
Jean ne"?
An swers
A. Danh từ làm chủ ngữ.
B. Đại từ làm chủ ngữ.
C. Tính từ làm chủ ngữ.
D. Động từ làm chủ ngữ.
A. Noun fun ctioning as the subject.
B. Pronoun fun ctioning as the subject.
C. Adjec tive fun ctioning as the subject.
D. Verb fun ctioning as the subject.
Predic tions
Correct An swer: B
Llama 3: A
Gem ma: A
Notes: Sam ple 1 tests un derstan ding of im plied meanings in dad’s gift-giving. Sam ple 2 assesses recognition of poetic forms. Sam ple 3 evaluates
com prehen sion of charac ter traits in poet ry. Sam ple 4 examines un derstan ding of gram matical roles in sen ten ces.
Llama 3 and Gem ma in correc tly iden tified the word "Cháu" as
a noun fun ctioning as the subject, when it ac tually fun ctions
as a pronoun in the given sen ten ce "Cháu là Gioan".
F. Limitation & Future work
Though we obtained promising results, we still need to
overcome several limitations. While quan tization tec hniques
alleviate com putational resource constraints and enabling local
dep loyment, this may in troduce subtle performan ce trade-


offs. Anot her limitation lies in the scope of our evaluation
dataset. The experiments were primarily con duc ted on the
original Vi MMRC dataset, excluding newer iterations such as
Vi MMRC 2.0 [13] which extend the original dataset to 12th
grade. We propose the following direc tions for future research:
• Im plement Chain-of-Thought prom pting tec hniques [19]
to en han ce the models’ reasoning capabilities, poten tially
im proving performan ce on com plex MRC tasks.
• Expand the evaluation on ot her datasets such as Vi MMRC
2.0 [13], offering more diverse and challen ging exam ples
for a com prehen sive assessment.
• Develop prac tical ap plications leveraging the fine-tuned
models, in cluding local question-an swering systems,
educational tools for automated question generation.
V. CON CLUSION
In this study, we fine-tuned two state-of-the-art LLMs,
Llama 3 and Gem ma, using the QLo RA met hod on the
Vi MMRC dataset, which led to significant performan ce
im provements. Our models not on ly out performed traditional
BERT-based ap proac hes but also surpassed larger models
like GPT-3 and GPT-3.5, despite having fewer parameters.
These fin dings highlight the efficien cy and poten tial of
QLo RA-based fine-tuning, making it highly suitable for
dep loying high-performan ce NLP models in en viron ments
with limited com putational resources. Through our in-depth
analyses, we also demonstrated the adap tability of LLMs
to Viet namese MRC tasks, providing valuable in sights for
future advan cements in low-resource lan guage processing.
Moving forward, future work will focus on en han cing model
reasoning through Chain-of-Thought prom pting, evaluating
performan ce on newer datasets such as Vi MMRC 2.0,
and developing prac tical real-world ap plications. Overall,
this study un derscores the poten tial of scaling LLM-based
solutions for un derrep resen ted lan guages, which can drive
further in novation in natural lan guage processing.
AC KNOWLEDGMENT
Wewould
like
tot hank
theanonymous
reviewers
fortheir
valuable
feedback. This
work
wassup ported
in part
bycom puting
resources
provided
by
In telligent In tegration Co., Ltd. (INT2).
REFEREN CES
[1] D. Dzen dzik, J. Foster, and C. Vogel, “En glish mac hine reading
com prehen sion datasets: A survey,” in Proceedings of the 2021
Con feren ce on Em pirical Met hods in Natural Lan guage Processing,
M.-F.
Moens,
X.
Huang,
L.
Specia,
and
S.
W.-t.
Yih,
Eds.
On line
and
Pun ta
Cana,
Dominican
Republic:
Association
for
Com putational
Lin guistics,
Nov.
2021,
pp.
8784–8804.
[On line].
Available: https://ac lan thology. org/2021. emnlp-main.693
[2] P. Zhu, Z. Zhang, H. Zhao, and X. Li, “Duma: Reading com prehen sion
with tran sposition thin king,” IEEE/ACM Tran sac tions on Audio, Speech,
and Lan guage Processing, vol. 30, pp. 269–279, 2022.
[3] W. X. Zhao, K. Zhou, J. Li, T. Tang, X. Wang, Y. Hou, Y. Min, B. Zhang,
J. Zhang, Z. Dong, Y. Du, C. Yang, Y. Chen, Z. Chen, J. Jiang, R. Ren,
Y. Li, X. Tang, Z. Liu, P. Liu, J. Nie, and J. rong Wen, “A survey
of large lan guage models,” Ar Xiv, vol. abs/2303.18223, 2023. [On line].
Available: https://api. seman ticscholar. org/Corpus ID:257900969
[4] C. Zhou, Q. Li, C. Li, J. Yu, Y. Liu, G. Wang, K. Zhang,
C. Ji, Q. Yan, L. He, H. Peng, J. Li, J. Wu, Z. Liu, P. Xie,
C. Xiong, J. Pei, P. S. Yu, L. S. M. S. University, B. University,
L. University, M. University, N. T. University, U. of California at
San Diego, D. University, U. of Chicago, and S. Research, “A
com prehen sive survey on pret rained foun dation models: A history from
bert to chatgpt,” Ar Xiv, vol. abs/2302.09419, 2023. [On line]. Available:
https://api. seman ticscholar. org/Corpus ID:257039063
[5] R. Bom masani, D. A. Hudson, E. Adeli, R. Altman, S. Arora,
S. von Arx, M. S. Bernstein, J. Bohg, A. Bosselut, E. Brun skill,
E. Bryn jolfsson, S. Buch, D. Card, R. Castellon, N. S. Chat terji,
A. S. Chen, K. A. Creel, J. Davis, D. Demszky, C. Donahue,
M. Doum bouya, E. Durmus, S. Ermon, J. Et chemen dy, K. Et hayarajh,
L. Fei-Fei, C. Finn, T. Gale, L. E. Gillespie, K. Goel, N. D. Goodman,
S. Grossman, N. Guha, T. Hashimoto, P. Hen derson, J. Hewitt, D. E.
Ho, J. Hong, K. Hsu, J. Huang, T. F. Icard, S. Jain, D. Jurafsky,
P. Kalluri, S. Karam cheti, G. Keeling, F. Khani, O. Khat tab, P. W.
Koh, M. S. Krass, R. Krishna, R. Kuditipudi, A. Kumar, F. Ladhak,
M. Lee, T. Lee, J. Leskovec, I. Levent, X. L. Li, X. Li, T. Ma,
A. Malik, C. D. Man ning, S. P. Mirchan dani, E. Mit chell, Z. Munyikwa,
S. Nair, A. Narayan, D. Narayanan, B. Newman, A. Nie, J. C. Niebles,
H. Nilforoshan, J. F. Nyarko, G. Ogut, L. Orr, I. Papadimit riou, J. S.
Park, C. Piech, E. Portelan ce, C. Potts, A. Raghunat han, R. Reich,
H. Ren, F. Rong, Y. H. Roohani, C. Ruiz, J. Ryan, C. R’e, D. Sadigh,
S. Sagawa, K. San thanam, A. Shih, K. P. Srinivasan, A. Tam kin,
R. Taori, A. W. Thomas, F. Tra mèr, R. E. Wang, W. Wang, B. Wu,
J. Wu, Y. Wu, S. M. Xie, M. Yasunaga, J. You, M. A. Zaharia,
M. Zhang, T. Zhang, X. Zhang, Y. Zhang, L. Zheng, K. Zhou, and
P. Liang, “On the op portunities and risks of foun dation models,” Ar Xiv,
2021. [On line]. Available: https://crfm. stan ford. edu/assets/report. pdf
[6] S. Gholami and M. Omar, “Do generative large lan guage models need
billions of parameters?” Ar Xiv, vol. abs/2309.06589, 2023. [On line].
Available: https://api. seman ticscholar. org/Corpus ID:261705636
[7] K.
V.
Nguyen,
K.
V.
Tran,
S.
T.
Luu,
A.
G.-
T.
Nguyen,
and
N.
L.-T.
Nguyen,
“A
pilot
study
on multip le
choice
mac hine
reading
com prehen sion
forviet namese
texts,”
Ar Xiv,
vol.
abs/2001.05687,
2020.
[On line].
Available:
https://api. seman ticscholar. org/Corpus ID:210700877
[8] AI@Meta,
“Llama
3model
card,”
2024.
[On line].
Available:
https://git hub. com/meta-llama/llama3/blob/main/MODEL_CARD. md
[9] G. Team, T. Mesnard, C. Hardin, R. Dadashi, S. Bhupatiraju, S. Pat hak,
L. Sifre, M. Riviè re, M. S. Kale, J. Love et al., “Gem ma: Open
models based on gemini research and tec hnology,” ar Xiv prep rint
ar Xiv:2403.08295, 2024.
[10] H. Touvron, L. Martin, K. Stone, P. Albert, A. Almahairi, Y. Babaei,
N. Bashlykov, S. Bat ra, P. Bhargava, S. Bhosale, D. Bikel, L. Blec her,
C. C. Ferrer, M. Chen, G. Cucurull, D. Esiobu, J. Fernan des, J. Fu,
W. Fu, B. Fuller, C. Gao, V. Goswami, N. Goyal, A. Hartshorn,
S. Hosseini, R. Hou, H. Inan, M. Kardas, V. Kerkez, M. Khabsa,
I. Kloumann, A. Korenev, P. S. Koura, M.-A. Lac haux, T. Lavril, J. Lee,
D. Liskovich, Y. Lu, Y. Mao, X. Martinet, T. Mihaylov, P. Mishra,
I. Molybog, Y. Nie, A. Poulton, J. Reizen stein, R. Run gta, K. Saladi,
A. Schelten, R. Silva, E. M. Smith, R. Subramanian, X. E. Tan, B. Tang,
R. Taylor, A. Williams, J. X. Kuan, P. Xu, Z. Yan, I. Zarov, Y. Zhang,
A. Fan, M. Kam badur, S. Narang, A. Rodriguez, R. Stojnic, S. Edunov,
and T. Scialom, “Llama 2: Open foun dation and fine-tuned chat
models,” 2023. [On line]. Available: https://arxiv. org/abs/2307.09288
[11] T. Det tmers, A. Pagnoni, A. Holtzman, and L. Zet tlemoyer, “Qlora:
Efficient finetuning of quan tized llms,” 2023. [On line]. Available:
https://arxiv. org/abs/2305.14314
[12] D. Han and M. Han, “Un sloth AI,” 5 2024. [On line]. Available:
https://git hub. com/un slot hai/un sloth
[13] S.
T.
Luu,
K.
T.
Hoang,
T.
Q.
Pham,
K.
V.
Nguyen,
and
N. L.-T. Nguyen, “A multip le choices reading com prehen sion corpus
forviet namese
lan guage
education,”
2023.
[On line].
Available:
https://arxiv. org/abs/2303.18162
[14] V. B. The, O. T. Thi, and P. Le-Hong, “Im proving sequen ce tagging
for viet namese text using tran sformer-based neural models,” Pacific
Asia Con feren ce on Lan guage, In formation and Com putation, 2020.
[On line]. Available: https://arxiv. org/abs/2006.15994
[15] D.
Jin,
S.
Gao,
J.-Y.
Kao,
T.
Chung,
and
D.
Z.
Hakkani-T¨ur,
“Mmm:
Multi-stage
multi-task
learning
formulti-choice
reading
com prehen sion,”
in
AAAI
Con feren ce


on
Artificial
In telligen ce,
2019.
[On line].
Available:
https://api. seman ticscholar. org/Corpus ID:203610341
[16] T. B. Brown, B. Mann, N. Ryder, M. Subbiah, J. Kap lan, P. Dhariwal,
A.
Neelakan tan,
P.
Shyam,
G.
Sastry,
A.
Askell,
S.
Agarwal,
A. Herbert-Voss, G. Krueger, T. Henighan, R. Child, A. Ramesh, D. M.
Ziegler, J. Wu, C. Win ter, C. Hesse, M. Chen, E. Sigler, M. Lit win,
S. Gray, B. Chess, J. Clark, C. Berner, S. Mc Can dlish, A. Radford,
I. Sut skever, and D. Amodei, “Lan guage models are few-shot learners,”
2020. [On line]. Available: https://arxiv. org/abs/2005.14165
[17] N. Muen nighoff, T. Wang, L. Sutawika, A. Roberts, S. Biderman,
T. L. Scao, M. S. Bari, S. Shen, Z.-X. Yong, H. Schoelkopf, X. Tang,
D. Radev, A. F. Aji, K. Almubarak, S. Albanie, Z. Alyafeai, A. Webson,
E. Raff, and C. Raffel, “Crosslin gual generalization through multitask
finetuning,” 2023. [On line]. Available: https://arxiv. org/abs/2211.01786
[18] D.-V. Nguyen and Q.-N. Nguyen, “Evaluating the sym bol bin ding
ability
oflarge
lan guage
models
formultip le-choice
questions
in viet namese
general
education,”
2023.
[On line].
Available:
https://arxiv. org/abs/2310.12059
[19] J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, B. Ic hter, F. Xia,
E. Chi, Q. Le, and D. Zhou, “Chain-of-thought prom pting elicits
reasoning
in large
lan guage
models,”
2022. [On line].
Available:
https://arxiv. org/pdf/2201.11903