Global Journal of Medical Terminology Research and In formatics, Vol. 2, No, 2, 2024
ISSN-3107-5282
5
On tology-Driven Ap proac hes for Stan dardizing Rare
Disease Terminology
Dr. Divya Pillai1, and Dr. San jay Bhatia2
1Am rita In stitute of Medical Scien ces, Koc hi.
2Am rita In stitute of Medical Scien ces, Koc hi.
Received: 04/March/2024; Revised: 06/Ap ril/2024; Ac cep ted: 06/May/2024; Published: 28/June/2024
Abstract
Rare diseases rep resent ap proximately 7000 disease en tities that affect almost 3.5 % of the world
population. Each rare disease receives in con sistent nomen clature from different medical systems which
im pedes research, diagnosis and treat ment. In this paper, we study the problem of in tegrating rare disease
terminologies using seman tic models through an on tology driven ap proach. Using existing on tological
datasets and on tology reasoners, we develop an up per on tology which automates the map ping and
alignment of diseases’ names and definitions wit hin databases. The data in teroperability, im proved
ret rieve and en han ced framework adap tability presen ted in the results demonstrate the effec tiveness of the
system. This study presents an in tegration ap proach that gives precise and scalable solution for
harmonization of rare disease in formatics terminologies.
Keywords: Rare Diseases On tology, Seman tic Stan dardization, Harmonization, Medical In formatics,
Data In teroperability, Automated Reasoning, Disease On tology
1 IN TRODUC TION
An ailment is called rare when their prevalen ce is less than one in two thousands persons.
In dividually, they are rare but there are over seven thousand such diseases oc curring all over the world.
While the in formatics of rare diseases cap tures in formation and facilitates the organizations of rare
diseases data, it still grap ples with the phenomenon of data silos ac cessibility. One of which is
on tological fragmen tation due to un classified nomen clature systems stems from heterogeneous
diagnosis criteria and locale specific public health coding system. As previously men tioned, these
overlap ping terms lead to subop timal results. Take, for in stan ce, a sin gle rare disease that could be
referred to by different names wit hin different databases, making its iden tification and analysis
exceedin gly difficult. As far as the systematization of medical terminology is con cerned, there is a
growing demand for a fully in tegrated ap proach system that focuses on the un derlying seman tics that
is clear in recent years, especially with the advent of efforts direc ted towards in dividualized and
precision ap proac hes to medicine.
The rapid advan cement in life scien ces in creases the volume and com plexity of medical knowledge
which makes it necessary to con tinually up date the chan ges in the un derlying con cepts of medicine
ac ross varying fields and bran ches of medicine. On tology driven ap proac hes provide a struc ture of
knowledge in a specific field using a con trolled vocabulary and relation ships through which domain


Global Journal of Medical Terminology Research and In formatics, Vol. 2, No, 2, 2024
ISSN-3107-5282
6con cepts can be arran ged forming a hierarchy enabling formal rep resen tations. This elaborative
lan guage permits the syn thesis of heterogeneous data sources in to one cohesive body referred to as
on tology which enables data to be syn thesized from different sources. The opus of the Human
Phenotype On tology (HPO), Orphanet Rare Disease On tology (ORDO), and SNOMED CT can serve
as un derlying biomedical on tologies.
Alon gside these resources, there lies a problem regarding the in tegration, up dating, and en han cing
medical con cepts and knowledge with ever-evolving medical knowledge terminologies. Not on ly have
these most on tologies been developed in silos, creating gaps in usefulness resulting in poor reliability
and validity, but also scope gaps have been created causing overlap, which blurs the distin ction bet ween
these con cepts. By using an on tological ap proach for unifying rare disease terminology, more effec tive
data mining, seam less patient care through in teroperable health records, and bet ter in ter and in tra
coun try collaborations can be at tained.
The paper discusses a framework that uses existing disease on tologies, which are augmen ted with
automated reasoning, to iden tify and correct seman tic mismat ches. These frameworks are construc ted
to be scalable and adap table for different regions and in stitutions, thus harmonizing the terminology
system. We evaluate its efficacy by con duc ting performan ce evaluations and com paring the results with
traditional ap proac hes. The following sec tions provide a thorough descrip tion of the research’s system
design, fin dings, and their relevan ce to healthcare.
2 LITERARY REVIEW
An in creasing num ber of recent studies have been documen ted focusing on the utilization of
on tology-based ap proac hes for stan dardization of healthcare data, especially for the orphanet rare
disease namespace. A few notable studies done in 2022 and 2023 demonstrate the progress in this area.
Li et al., (2022) focused on the issue of a seman tic gap in multi-source healthcare data and proposed
a hybrid on tology alignment model that raised both recall and precision for equivalent medical term
iden tification. Their fin dings em phasized in tegrating a diverse ran ge of lexical, struc tural, and domain-
level in formation.
Wang & Zhou, (2023) looked in to the in corporation of Orphanet’s ORDO in to clinical decision
sup port systems. They noted a significant im provement in diagnosis of rare diseases, with on tology-
driven systems in creasin gly iden tifying phenotypic overlaps and synonyms for diseases.
Silva et al., (2023) made anot her noteworthy con tribution by developing a framework for cross-
lin king scarce disease registries in Europe using the HPO and SNOMED CT. This ap proach
stan dardization of terminology en han ced the searchability of patient cohorts with com parable
phenotypes (HPO 2023).
In NLP, Patel & Nguyen, (2022) advan ced the study by proposing a tran sform model to map
unstruc tured clinical text to rare disease on tologies. Their model ap pears to suc cessfully tac kle the


Global Journal of Medical Terminology Research and In formatics, Vol. 2, No, 2, 2024
ISSN-3107-5282
7map ping of detailed relation ships wit hin com plex diseases, but shortcomings of generalizability ac ross
lan guage and in stitution were noted.
Fink et al., (2023) added volatility of on tology as an emergent building block of in teroperability to
the already existing discourse on the im portan ce of ap plying the FAIR prin cip les of Fin dable,
Ac cessible, In teroperable, and Reusable in rare disease research. They promoted con cepts of
collaborative on tology curation where tools can be designed to main tain perpetual revision and
alignment.
As a whole, these works em phasized the value of using on tology-based ap proac hes to en han ce the
syn thesis of fragmen ted data for precise diagnostics and seam less data in teroperability. There are,
however, still in con sisten cies in the in tegration of com peting on tologies along with con stant modular
frameworks. Our ap proach com bines these solutions and proposes a dynamic bridge for on tology
discrepan cy based on reasoning.
3 MET HODOLOGY
This work's system framework is built around four main modules: seman tic reasoning, validation,
con flict resolution, and on tology in tegration. The framework aims to align the different terminologies
used ac ross rare disease databases in to a sin gle on tology-based systematized rep resen tation.
1. On tology In tegration Module: The module downloads and parses disease on tologies like
ORDO, HPO, and SNOMED CT. The system uses the OWL API to recon cile ap plicable class
hierarchies direc tory merging synonym shared object properties.
2. Con flict Detec tion and Resolution: Con flic ting definitions or labels for any one con cept create
con flict. A hybrid string similarity (Levenshtein distan ce), seman tic distan ce (Word Net), and con cept
con text using em bedding models (Bio BERT) are ap plied for con flict detec tion. Con flicts are scored
and sorted in ac cordan ce with their con fiden ce scores and then resolved based on an established rule-
based hierarchy.
3. Reasoning En gine: En sures all new assertions made in the on tology will not con tradict the pre-
existing axioms. An OWL reasoner, for exam ple, Hermi T, runs a con sisten cy check and derives new
equivalen ces. The module is also respon sible for verifying that all assertions made after merging are
logically valid and that subsum ption relations, such as disease syn drome and sym ptom, are correc tly
in ferred.
4. Validation and Out put: We evaluate the harmonized on tology by ap plying it to several clinical
cases and chec king whet her there is en han ced resolution of terms (i. e., bet ter recognition of diseases
ac ross records). The on tology is out put in RDF and JSON-LD formats for system in teroperability.
The system was built with Pro té gé 5.5 and was tested against 500 rare disease en tries from Orphanet
as well as clinical data from MIMIC-III. In teroperability met rics were calculated through the


Global Journal of Medical Terminology Research and In formatics, Vol. 2, No, 2, 2024
ISSN-3107-5282
8harmonized terminology com paring unstruc tured clinical records against a provided gold stan dard for
an notation.
4 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Our system demonstrated significant im provements in terminology con sisten cy and data
in teroperability.
Table 1: Term Resolution Ac curacy Com parison
Met hod
Precision Recall F1-Score
Manual Curation
0.81
0.72
0.76
NLP-on ly (BERT)
0.84
0.78
0.81
Proposed On tology System 0.91
0.88
0.89
Both manual and NLP based met hods were out performed by the proposed on tology-driven
framework. The reason for this advan tage is its capacity to resolve am biguities of meaning associated
with diseases and deduce relations that ot her met hods based on string mat ching fail to iden tify.
Table 2: Performan ce Com parison of On tology-Driven Met hods
Met hod
Ac curacy (%) Speed (ms/query) Adap tability (score out of 10)
Manual Curation
81
150
6
NLP-based (BERT)
84
100
7
Proposed On tology System 91
80
9
These results showcase the reasoning en gine's ac curacy and trac king performan ce ac ross different
datasets. The resolution suc cess rate was best in the Orphanet dataset and somewhat lower in
unstruc tured clinical notes. Nevertheless, in all noted con ditions, the im provement was statistically
significant (p < 0.01).
Study On tology-bac ked synergistic ap proac hes on tologies en han ce not on ly in teroperability but also
analyses such as patient similarity, phenotype-based diagnostic, and patient model simulations. The
out lined issues are on tology drift, con stant chan ge man dates, and oc casional am biguity in the synonym
map ping leading to ‘tissues’. These can be solved through collaborative spaces and automated up dating
systems.
5 CON CLUSION
On tology met hodologies formulate rare diseases' stan dards in a flexible and precise man ner. Using
formal seman tics and automated reasoning allows our system to amalgamate heterogeneous
terminologies through and beyond data in teroperability and phenomenical analytics ac curacy. Results
have out performed traditional met hods, as well as NLP-based ap proac hes, demonstrating greater


Global Journal of Medical Terminology Research and In formatics, Vol. 2, No, 2, 2024
ISSN-3107-5282
9efficacy. The met hod provides equal relevan ce to any chan ges, additions, or removals of medical terms,
thus im proving research and clinical value. Work with regard to real-time elec tronic health cen sus
in tegration, multilin gualism, and expan sion towards treat ment and drug related on tologies un der rare
disease in formatics will be prioritized in precision care in frastruc ture initiatives.
REFEREN CES
[1] Li, J., Zhang, Y., & Hu, W. (2022). Seman tic
in tegration
in heterogeneous
medical
databases using hybrid on tologies. Journal
of Biomedical In formatics, 128, 104050.
[2] Wang, F., & Zhou, X. (2023). En han cing
rare disease diagnosis with in tegrated
on tology-based decision systems. Artificial
In telligen ce in Medicine, 139, 102460.
[3] Silva, R. et al., (2023). Harmonization of
European rare disease registries through
on tology lin kage. Orphanet Journal of Rare
Diseases, 18(1), 113.
[4] Patel, A., & Nguyen, T. (2022). Map ping
unstruc tured clinical narratives to rare
disease con cepts with deep learning. Journal
of Biomedical Seman tics, 13(1), 22.
[5] Fink, D., Thomas, J., & Meyer, P. (2023).
FAIR data prin cip les in rare disease research.
Nature Reviews Drug Discovery, 22,
182–184.
[6] HPO Con sortium. (2023). Human Phenotype
On tology up date: 2023 release. Nuc leic
Acids Research, 51(D1), D964–D969.