Pri Mera Scien tific
Medicine and Public Health
Volume 3 Issue 6 Decem ber 2023
DOI: 10.56831/PSMPH-03-106
ISSN: 2833-5627
Pri Mera Scien tific Medicine and Public Health https://primerascien tific. com/psmph
Traditional Medicine in Viet nam
Copyright:
© 2023 Lakshmi Balasun da-
ram., et al. This is an open-ac-
cess artic le distributed un der
the Creative Com mons At tri-
bution Licen se, which permits
un restric ted use, distribution,
and rep roduc tion in any medi-
um, provided the original work
is properly cited.
Citation:
Lakshmi Balasun daram., et
al. “Traditional Medicine in
Viet nam". Pri Mera Scien tific
Medicine and Public Health 3.6
(2023): 28-31.
Type: Short Com munication
Received: Novem ber 19, 2023
Published: Novem ber 28, 2023
Naufal Aldila Tefara and Lakshmi Balasun daram*
The British In ternational School, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates
*Correspon ding Aut hor: Lakshmi Balasun daram, The British In ternational School, Abu Dhabi,
United Arab Emirates.
In troduc tion
Traditional medicine (TM)/folk medicine (FM) has had a profound im pact in Viet nam, with it be-
ing a mainstream medical prac tice, though which has been slowing phasing out, in the coun try and
TM/FM coexisting with modern western medicine. Wit hin Traditional medicinal prac tices in Viet-
nam, there are two kinds of Traditional medicine - Thuốc Nam i. e., Sout hern Herbology/medicine
and Thuốc Bắc, i. e., Northern Herbology/medicine. The former is in digenous Viet namese traditional
medicine which developed from Viet namese folk knowledge, whilst the lat ter is traditional Chinese
medicine in troduced from cen turies of medical exchan ges bet ween various Chinese and Viet namese
dynasties. (Adorisio S, et al., 2016) This will cover both prac tices as one.
Current usage
Traditional Viet namese Medicine (TVM), in the modern age, is a mainstream prac tice wit hin mod-
ern Viet namese medicinal prac tice, with pharmacology programs by many Viet namese Universities
and colleges offering traditional medicine and pharmacognosy as one of the 5 op tional specialization
fields suggested by the Ministry of Education and Training (Vo, Thi-Ha, et. Al, 2013).
Out side of Viet nam, TVM is still prac ticed by a significant minority of overseas Viet namese com-
munity and diaspora in many coun tries e. g., in a 2016 study on Viet namese out patients in Boston,
Massac husetts, 68% reported using Traditional Viet namese Medicine, with most being old and more
than half being female and im migrants/residents (living for < 13 years) (Nguyen, Long T., et al., 2016).
Herbs and traditional cure met hods
Herbs
Like most Traditional medicine, herbology is an in tegral part of TVM. Table 1 below shows several
herbs (specific parts) used, ac tive in gredients, and its treat ments in TVM.
Non herbology-based traditional medicine also exists in TVM, with an exam ple being frog skin.
Frog skin is used in TVM as a biological dressing and as a means of en couragement of wound-healing
(Mashreghi, Moham mad, et al., 2013). Wit hin TVM, there are also many prac tices and met hods to
treat an in dividual such as - “Wind scraping (Cạo gió)”, “Cup ping (Giác hơi)”, and “bloodlet ting (Cắt
llể)” (Nguyen LT et al., 2016).


Pri Mera Scien tific Medicine and Public Health https://primerascien tific. com/psmph
Traditional Medicine in Viet nam
29
Herb
Part(s) of the
plant used
Ac tive in gredient(s)
Traditional medicine
treat ment in TVM
Step hania rotun da Lour.
(Menispermaceae) (Chi Bình
vôi) [2]
Stems, leaves,
tubers
Cep haran thine (alkaloids), xylopinine
(protoberberine alkaloids), cep ha-
ramine (Hasubanan alkaloids)
Asthma, headac hes, fever,
diarrhoea.
Paederia foetida (Skunk /
stin kvine) (Mơ tròn) [14]
Roots, leaves,
barks, fruits
Iridoids, flavonoids, volatile oil
In flam mation, haemor-
rhoid piles, diarrhea
Pseuderan themum palatife-
rum (Hoàn ngọc trắng) [12]
Leaves
Lignins Epifriedelanol, lupeol, luper-
none, botulin, pomolic acid (triter-
penes) Asperglaucide (Dipep tide)
In flam matory diseases
Crinium latifolium (Trinh nữ
hoàng cung) [7]
Leaves
(extracts)
Flavonoids, Alkaloids (non-specified)
An ti-Can cer (Prostate
can cer and lym phoma) and
an tiviral ac tivity
Gynostem ma pen tap hyllum
(Giảo cổ lam) [4]
Leaves, stems
Flavonoids (non-specified), Saponin
An ti-diabetic ac tivity
Aconitum genus (Chi Ô đầu)
[11]
Leaves, root,
tubers
Alkaloids, Flavonoids, Free fat ty ac-
ids, polysac charides (non-specified)
Rheumatic fever, joint pain,
en doc rinal disorders
Table 1: Herbs in TVM and their traditional medicine treat ment.
Wind scraping (Cạo gió)”
This is also prevalent Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and is the prac tice of rubbing one’s skin with oils before scraping it with
the side of a coin, a spoon, or the top side of the thumb’s/in dex fin ger’s nail. It is performed on the back for general malaise, back pain,
and/or stomach pain, it is done in the chest in a wheel-spoke pat tern for cough or chest pain, and for nausea, it is done at the jugular
notch, sternum and/or the fossa above and below the clavic les. The met hod leaves patients with ec chymosis/red hematoma streaks
which can last up to 10 days [10].
Its use as a legitimate way to remedy headac hes, throat problems, and nausea are questionable at best and are not bac ked up by
scien tific and clinical eviden ce, as it damages skin, leading to, at best, dermatitis, burns, and haematuria, and at its most damaging,
severe in juries that require skin grafts to heal [2].
“Cup ping (Giác hơi)”
This is the prac tice that in volves the use of partially vacuumed glass cups/large bam boo tubes on skin to remove “bad wind” from
the body. This is done by creating vacuums in side the cup/tube before ap plying them to the affec ted area, leaving it for 5-10 minutes
before being snap ped off the area. It is meant to “suck out” bad wind (a belief also prevalent in Traditional Chinese Medicine) [10].
Despite some research on cup ping, eviden ce of the effec tiveness of cup ping as a tec hnique is disputed and not very strong. Scars,
burns, in fec tions, and worsening of con ditions e. g., ec zema, psoriasis, etc. are com mon side effects. In fec tions are also a high possi-
bility due to the same equip ment being used on different patients and can lead to the spread of bloodborne diseases e. g., hepatitis B,
hepatitis C [10].
“Bloodlet ting (Cắt llể)”
This is the prac tice of making ~2-5mm long cuts on one’s skin with a shard of glass or razor blade and removing a few drops of blood
from them through squeezing the areas of in cision. To speed up/extra more blood in the process, boiled, hot bam boo tubes/vacuumed
glass cups were put over the in cisions. Bloodlet ting has no eviden ce which backs up medical use and leaves one with permanent scars


Pri Mera Scien tific Medicine and Public Health https://primerascien tific. com/psmph
Traditional Medicine in Viet nam
30and sometimes even serious in fec tions [10].
Im pact on modern allopat hy
The efficacy and efficien cy of TVM is mostly not based on eviden ce, as suggested by the overview of a few of the prac tices and meth-
ods em ployed in TVM, which causes more harm than good. However, the Viet namese government have sup ported the advan cement
of Scien tific develop ment in Traditional Viet namese Medicine (Woerden bag, HJ, et al., 2012), with the Viet namese health care system
in order to promote the scien tific validation of TVM and its prac tices (Eriksson, L., et al., 2014). Below are several studies which have
validated com ponents of TVM and its proven and poten tial im pact on modern allopat hy.
In a study by Desgrouas, C, et al., (2014) (Desgrouas C et al., 2014), the tubers of Step hania rotun da con tain tubers that con tain
alkaloids such as Cep haran thine and Xylopinine, which have links to the allopat hic effects it has on ailments such as asthma, head-
ac he, fever, and diarrhea. Ot her phytoc hemicals have an ti-plasmodial, an ti-can cer, and im munomodulatory effects, with the alkaloids
Sinomenine, Cep haran thine, and I-step holidine having the most promising effects when tested in humans. This means that Step hania
rotun da, specifically its alkaloids such as those listed above, could treat can cer. Alkaloids in general have an ti-can cer effects, with
studies proving such effects, the mec hanics of which in volve modulating key signalling pat hways which in volved in can cer cell prolif-
eration, can cer cell cyc le, and can cer cell metastasis. (Desgrouas C et al., 2014).
Pseuderan themum palatiferum have shown to have an tioxidant and an ti-in flam matory properties through a study which mac ro-
phages treated with P. palatiferum showed dec reased oxidative stress and reduced i NOS (in ducible Nit ric Oxide Syn thase) and COX-2
protein levels. Isolated from the plant’s roots, lignin, botulin, and lupeol show cytotoxic and an timic robial ac tivities. (Mai H et al., 2011)
Ot her than this, in a study by Padee et al., (2010), extracts from the leaves of P. palatiferum sam ples showed a beneficial effect in hyper-
glycaemic rats and preven ted certain com plications for the diabetic rats. This means that P. palatiferum has a poten tial an ti-diabetic
effect on humans. (P. Padee et al., 2010).
Several studies have shown Gynostem ma pen tap hyllum have an an ti-diabetic effect, bac king up the use they have on TVM. In a study
by Hoa, NK, et al., (2009), extracts from G. pen tap hyllum extracts have shown a reduc tion in blood glucose and in hibited the in crease
of glucose after a glucose challen ge in healthy mice. (Hoa NK et al., 2009) G. pen tap hyllum in duced an im provement of glycemia and
in sulin sen sitivity of drug-naïve type-2 diabetes patients, a study by Huyen, V. T., (2010) finds. (Huyen V. T. et al., 2010) In anot her study
by Huyen, V. T., (2013), Giao co lam tea, a traditional Viet namese herbal tea made from G. pen tap hyllum, has shown to im prove in sulin
sen sitivity in drug-naïve type 2 diabetes patients, showing that the traditional ap plication of G. pen tap hyllum has been shown to help
with modern allopat hy. (Huyen V. T. et al., 2013).
Frog skin, a non-herbal Traditional Viet namese Medicine, ac cording to Mashreghi, M, et al., (2013), has shown a significant effec-
tiveness in promoting the wound-healing process. Skin sec retions extrac ted from the species Rana ridibun da were found to be signifi-
can tly effec tive in the promotion of the wound-healing process. When treated, it promises good poten tial for its clinical ap plication in
wound care. (Mashreghi M et al., 2013).
Referen ces
1. Adorisio S., et al. “In tegration of traditional and Western medicine in Viet namese populations: A review of Health Percep tions
and therapies”. Natural Product Com munications 11.9 (2016).
2. Cup ping [In ternet]. U. S. Department of Health and Human Services.
3. Desgrouas C., et al. “Et hnobotany, Phytoc hemistry and pharmacology of Step hania Rotun da Lour”. Journal of Et hnop harmacology
154.3 (2014): 537-63.
4. Habli Z., et al. “Emerging cytotoxic alkaloids in the bat tle against can cer: Overview of Molecular Mec hanisms”. Molecules 22.2
(2017): 250.
5. Hoa NK., et al. “Screening of the hypoglycemic effect of eight Viet namese herbal drugs”. Met hods and Fin dings in Experimen tal


Pri Mera Scien tific Medicine and Public Health https://primerascien tific. com/psmph
Traditional Medicine in Viet nam
31and Clinical Pharmacology 31.3 (2009): 165-9.
6. Huyen VT., et al. “Gynostem ma pen tap hyllum tea im proves in sulin sen sitivity in type 2 diabetic patients”. Journal of Nut rition and
Metabolism (2013): 1-7.
7. Huyen VT., et al. “An tidiabetic effects of add-on gynostem ma pen tap hyllumextract therapy with sulfonylureas in type 2 diabetic
patients”. Eviden ce-Based Com plemen tary and Alternative Medicine (2012).
8. JEN NY M. “Crinum latifolium leave extracts sup press im mune ac tivation cascades in perip heral blood mononuc lear cells and
proliferation of prostate tumor cells”. Scien tia Pharmaceutica 79.2 (2011): 323-35.
9. Mai H., et al. “Lignans and ot her con stituents from the roots of the Viet namese medicinal plantpseuderan themum palatiferum”.
Plan ta Medica 77.09 (2011): 951-4.
10. Mashreghi M., et al. “Topical effects of frog “Rana ridibun da” skin sec retions on wound healing and reduc tion of wound mic robial
load”. Journal of Et hnop harmacology 145.3 (2013): 793-7.
11. Nguyen LT., et al. “The use of traditional Viet namese medicine among Viet namese im migrants at ten ding an Urban Com munity
Health Cen ter in the United States”. The Journal of Alternative and Com plemen tary Medicine 22.2 (2016): 145-53.
12. Nyirimigabo E., et al. “A review on Phytoc hemistry, pharmacology and toxicology studies of aconitum”. Journal of Pharmacy and
Pharmacology 67.1 (2014): 1-19.
13. Padee P., et al. “Hypoglycemic effect of a leaf extract of Pseuderan themum palatiferum (NEES) radlk. in normal and strep tozoto-
cin-in duced diabetic rats”. Journal of Et hnop harmacology 132.2 (2010): 491-6.
14. Vo T-H., et al. “Pharmacy Education in Viet nam”. U. S. National Library of Medicine (2013).
15. Wang L., et al. “A phytoc hemical, pharmacological and clinical profile of paederia foetida and P. scan dens”. Natural Product Com-
munications 9.6 (2014): 879-86.