RESEARCH
Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
https://doi. org/10.1007/s10916-024-02139-y

Alessio Bot trighi
alessio. bot trighi@uniupo. it
Federica Grosso
federica. grosso@ospedale. al. it
Marco Ghiglione
mghiglione@ospedale. al. it
An tonio Maconi
amaconi@ospedale. al. it
Stefano Nera
stefano. nera@uniupo. it
Luca Piovesan
luca. piovesan@uniupo. it
Erica Raina
erica. raina@uniupo. it
An nalisa Roveta
aroveta@ospedale. al. it
Paolo Teren ziani
paolo. teren ziani@uniupo. it
1
Com puter Scien ce In stitute, DISIT, University of Eastern
Piedmont, Alessan dria, Italy
2
In tegrated Laboratory of AI and Medical In formatics, DAIRI
– SS. An tonio e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo Hospital, DISIT –
University of Eastern Piedmont, Alessan dria, Italy
3
Mesot helioma, Melanoma and Rare Can cers Unit, Azien da
Ospedaliera “SS An tonio e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo”,
Alessan dria, Italy
4
Skin Can cer Unit, Azien da Ospedaliera “SS An tonio e Biagio
e Cesare Arrigo”, Alessan dria, Italy
5
Research In novation Department, Research Training
In novation In frastruc ture Azien da Ospedaliera “SS. An tonio
e Biagio e Cesare Arrigo”, Alessan dria, Italy
Abstract
In traditional medical education, learners are mostly trained to diagnose and treat patients through supervised prac tice.
Artificial In telligen ce and simulation tec hniques can com plement such an educational prac tice. In this paper, we present
GLARE-Edu, an in novative system in which AI knowledge-based met hodologies and simulation are exploited to train
learners “how to act” on patients based on the eviden ce-based best prac tices provided by clinical prac tice guidelines.
GLARE-Edu is being developed by a multi-discip linary team in volving physicians and AI experts, wit hin the AI-LEAP
(LEArning Personalization of AI and with AI) Italian project. GLARE-Edu is domain-in depen dent: it sup ports the ac qui
sition of clinical guidelines and case studies in a com puter format. Based on ac quired guidelines (and case studies), it
provides a series of educational facilities: (i) navigation, to navigate the struc tured rep resen tation of the guidelines pro
vided by GLARE-Edu, (ii) automated simulation, to show learners how a guideline would suggest to act, step-by-step,
on a specific case, and (iii) (self) verification, asking learners how they would treat a case, and com paring step-by-step
the learner’s proposal with the suggestions of the proper guideline. In this paper, we describe GLARE-Edu architec ture
and general features, and we demonstrate our ap proach through a con crete ap plication to the melanoma guideline and we
propose a preliminary evaluation.
Keywords  Educational knowledge-based AI system · Com puter-in terpretable clinical guidelines · Knowledge
rep resen tation · Medical training and assessment · Clinical guideline simulation
Received: 3 July 2024 / Ac cep ted: 28 Decem ber 2024
© The Aut hor(s) 2024
A Sym bolic AI Ap proach to Medical Training
Alessio Bot trighi1,2
· Federica Grosso3
· Marco Ghiglione4 · An tonio Maconi5
· Stefano Nera1,2
·
Luca Piovesan1,2
· Erica Raina1,2
· An nalisa Roveta2,5
· Paolo Teren ziani1,2
1 3


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
In troduc tion
Traditional medical texts and courses cover a wide ran ge of
knowledge, ran ging from human anatomy to the descrip
tion of diseases, and their diagnosis and treat ment. How
ever, “operational” problems such as “how to act on a
specific patient?”, “How to diagnose and treat a patient
by ap plying the best medical procedures?” are fun damen
tal in medical education, thus deserving specific at ten tion
and dedicated met hodologies and tools. As a mat ter of
fact, the knowledge about the “best” eviden ce-based clini
cal procedures to diagnose and treat patients affec ted by a
specific disease is widely available, textually en coded in to
clinical prac tice guidelines (CPGs). CPGs are “systemati
cally developed statements to assist prac titioner and patient
decisions about ap prop riate healthcare un der specific
clinical circum stan ces” [1]. CPGs are widely promoted by
national and in ternational healthcare agen cies, to in troduce
eviden ce-based medicine and sup port the quality and stan
dardization of healthcare services. Thousands of textual
CPGs are curren tly available (e. g., the Guideline In terna
tional Net work [2] provides more than 6500 CPGs). How
ever, many CPGs are en coded in textual form as books of
several hun dred pages. Thus, it is very difficult to learn them
and to select from them exac tly the recom men dation suit
able to cope with a specific patient. For in stan ce, a recent
need-assessment of CPGs in medical education carried on
by the Guideline In ternational Net work working group
about medical education poin ted out that the majority of
medical students en coun ter guidelines for the first time in
their clinical years, and are often unable to effec tively use
CPGs typically due to a lack of education. A main critical
issue poin ted out by such an analysis is the need of sup ports
for education on the proper use of CPGs [3]. Com puter-
based ap proac hes can play a relevant role in this con text:
“The literature reveals that Clinical In formatics training in
the core curricula will com plement if not en han ce clinical
skills”, so that “future research needs to com prehen sively
address current gaps in Clinical In formatics training in dif
ferent con texts” [4]. However, a recent analysis has shown
that, though learners showed higher satisfac tion with digital
education com pared to traditional learning, the im pact of
current educational digital tec hniques in the con text of CPG
is still quite limited [5]. Notably, in the area of CPGs, sin ce
the 1980s, the AI in Medicine (AIM) com munity has started
to design domain-in depen dent systems to ac quire CPGs
in a com puter-in terpretable format, and to sup port their
execution on specific patients (see, e. g., the surveys [6–8]).
GLARE (Guideline Ac quisition Rep resen tation and Execu
tion) is one of such systems, which we have been develop
ing and adop ting sin ce 1996 [9]. However, such systems are
main ly devoted to the decision sup port task, while on ly few
CPG-based AIM ap proac hes have started to in vestigate the
educational task (see Sect. 5). In this paper, starting from
our long-term GLARE experien ce, we propose a new sys
tem, GLARE-Edu, specifically devoted to medical educa
tion. GLARE-Edu is domain-in depen dent: it is not devoted
to a specific CPG, but sup ports the ac quisition and use of
different CPGs. Sin ce CPGs are collec tions of well-defined
and quite struc tured explicit knowledge, GLARE-Edu is
charac terized by the develop ment/adop tion of sym bolic AI
tec hniques (e. g., knowledge rep resen tation, plan ning, logic-
based reasoning, tem poral reasoning) to rep resent and
operate on it (as op posed to Mac hine Learning tec hniques,
suitable when large amounts of data are available)1.
GLARE-Edu provides a tool to sup port medical experts
in the ac quisition of CPGs in a com puter format, hen ceforth
called Com puter-In terpretable Guidelines (CIG). An addi
tional tool sup ports the ac quisition of (virtual) case stud
ies, in ten ded as the com puter-in terpretable descrip tion of
the evolution of the patients’ clinical parameters/data. The
core of GLARE-Edu con sists of the navigation, automated
simulation, and verification tools, using the ac quired CPGs
and case studies to address different aspects/com peten cies
of medical education.
We are developing GLARE-Edu wit hin a two-year proj
ect, AI-LEAP (LEArning Personalization of AI and with AI)
[11], in a multi-discip linary team in cluding mem bers from
our University and from the hospital SS. An tonio, Biagio
e Cesare Arrigo in Alessan dria. In this paper, we describe
the results of the first year of the project. In Sect. “GLARE-
Edu: background, un derlying philosop hy, educational
im pact” we highlight the background, the un derlying phi
losop hy, and the educational im pact of GLARE-Edu. In
Sect.  “GLARE-Edu: architec ture and main features” we
show the overall architec ture of GLARE-Edu, and discuss
its com ponents. In Sect. “Evaluation of GLARE-Edu’s Edu
cational Ap proach”, we sketch a preliminary evaluation of
our ap proach and the evaluation plan provided in the AI-
LEAP project. Sec tion  “Related work” discusses related
work, and Sect. “Con clusions and future works” presents
con clusions and future work.
1  In artificial in telligen ce, sym bolic artificial in telligen ce (also
known as classical artificial in telligen ce or logic-based artificial
in telligen ce) is the term for the collec tion of all met hods in artificial
in telligen ce research that are based on high-level sym bolic (human-
readable) rep resen tations of problems, logic and search [10].
1 3
2

Page 2 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
GLARE-Edu: Background, Un derlying
Philosop hy, Educational Im pact
In this sec tion, we motivate the need for educational CIG
systems like GLARE-Edu (with respect to existent CIG sys
tems for decision sup port; subsec tion “CIG-based clinical
decision sup port systems vs. educational systems”), present
GLARE-Edu un derlying prin cip les (subsec tion “GLARE-
Edu un derlying philosop hy”), and discuss the main tasks of
GLARE-Edu and its educational im pact (subsec tion “Tasks
and educational im pact”).
CIG-Based Clinical Decision Sup port Systems vs.
Educational Systems
As already men tioned in the in troduc tion, given the role of
CPGs in medical prac tice, many different domain-in depen
dent decision sup port systems have been built to ac quire
CPGs in com puter format (i. e., in to a CIG) and to sup port
physicians in their ap plication to patients (see, e. g., the sur
veys [6–8]). Sin ce CPGs con sist of large bodies of well-
defined and quite struc tured knowledge, and physicians
ap preciate an explicit rep resen tation and management of
such a knowledge, such systems are charac terized by the
adop tion of advan ced sym bolic AI met hodologies (e. g., in
GLARE: knowledge rep resen tation, on tological reasoning,
tem poral reasoning, decision theory, model-based verifica
tion, con forman ce evaluation) to ac quire and rep resent it,
and to provide user-physicians with different forms of sup
port [12, 13].
(B1)
CIG Decision Sup port Systems Behavior: In
short, on ce a CIG is ac quired, such systems take as
in put it and the clinical record of a patient (managed
by an external DBMS), and, step-by-step, automatically
determine the next ac tions or decisions to be taken for
the patient, ac cording to the CIG. Step-by-step, ac tions
and decisions are suggested to the physician, who
decides whet her ac cep ting and ap plying them to the
patient or not.
Though some of such systems have also been used for edu
cational purposes, their behavior is geared towards to deci
sions sup port. In GLARE-Edu, we sup port (besides ot her
facilities) two main behaviors (different from the above).
CIG Educational System (GLARE-Edu) Behaviors
First of all, for education, a system can not con nect with
DBMS managing clinical records, but has to ac quire a-pri
ori also case studies (besides CIGs). Given a CIG and a case
study for it, GLARE-Edu provides (B2) and (B3).
(B2)
GLARE-Edu’s Automated Simulation. Step-by-
step, GLARE-Edu automatically determines the next
ac tions or decisions to be taken to manage the case
study, ac cording to the CIG. Ac tions and decisions are
shown step-by-step to the learner, to demonstrate how
the CIG recom mends to manage the case study (nota
bly, differen tly from (B1), in automated simulation, the
system “leads”, and the user can not make choices).
(B3)
GLARE-Edu’s
Verification.
Step-by-step,
GLARE-Edu lets the learner propose how he or she
would act on the case study, and automatically checks
whet her his or her proposal is con sistent with what the
CIG would have recom men ded to do, providing expla
nations in the case of differen ces (notably, such a behav
ior is com pletely different from (B1), and GLARE-Edu
is the first CIG system in the literature providing it).
GLARE-Edu Un derlying Philosop hy
GLARE-Edu grounds on the 25-year work of (part of) the
team about GLARE, a CIG system devoted to decision sup
port [9]. GLARE-Edu builds on top of GLARE, moving the
at ten tion from decision sup port to education, but main tain
ing its basic un derlying prin cip les, i. e., being.

●
Domain-in depen dent: in GLARE, we have ac quired
and managed many different CPGs, in cluding asthma,
ischemic stroke, alcohol-related diseases, gastro-esoph
ageal disease, polyt rauma.

●
User-frien dly: GLARE’s (and GLARE-Edu’s) rep
resen tation formalism and its facilities have been de
signed and tested by a multidiscip linary team in cluding
physicians.

●
A sup port system: GLARE (and GLARE-Edu’s) is in
ten ded to help users, and not to substitute them.
In particular, GLARE-Edu basically adopts the same rep re
sen tation formalism used by GLARE, so that it takes advan
tage of GLARE’s ac quisition (see Sect. 3.3) and navigation
(see Sect. 3.5) tools, and has been designed in cooperation
with physicians that are in volved also in its educational use
(con sider, e. g., the experimen tal evaluation described in
Sect. 4).
Tasks and Educational Im pact
To clarify the goals and educational im pact of GLARE-
Edu, it is im portant to clarify that it sup ports two different
modalities of use:

●
Supervised use, in which lessons are held by medical
experts, who adopt GLARE-Edu navigation, automated
1 3
Page 3 of 15
2


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
Task 2: Learning How a CPG Recom mends to Manage a Case
Study
In traditional education, given a (hun dred-pages) CPG, a
teac her is left alone to show learners which parts of it are
relevant to the management of each specific case study,
and, in their autonomous study, learners have no sup port to
un derstand which CPG recom men dations ap plies to specific
case studies. GLARE-Edu’s automated simulation facility
performs in feren ces on the knowledge rep resen tation in
order to automatically “adapt” the “con cep tual map” (i. e.,
the CIG’s rep resen tation) to each specific case study, show
ing the parts relevant for it. This is a fun damen tal sup port
for teac hers (in the supervised modality) to show and dis
cuss how a general CPG ap plies to a specific case study, and
by learners (in the non-supervised modality) learn that in a
facilitated way.
Task 3: Verifying Learner’s Ability to Manage a Case Study
(with Explanations)
In traditional education, learners’ self-verification is not sup
ported, and the teac her has no sup port to define case studies,
ask learners how they would manage them (given a CPG),
and evaluating (with respect to CPG’s recom men dations)
and explaining learners’ solutions. GLARE-Edu verifica
tion facility is an in novative (the first one in the literature,
con sidering the CPG con text) to sup port teac hers (super
vised modality) in such a task, and, above all, to sup port
learners’ self-verification. We believe that this is a crucial
advan ce with respect to the state-of-the-art of CIG systems.
Finally, please notice that, to exem plify GLARE-Edu’s
behavior and educational im pact, we in clude, as additional
material, a short demo showing GLARE-Edu “in ac tion”
[14]2.
2  The demo has been presen ted at ECAI’24, Doc toral Con sortium.
simulation and verification facilities to en rich their les
sons (see Fig. 1a).

●
Non-supervised use, in which the above facilities are
direc tly used by learners, to facilitate their learning pro
cess (see Fig. 1b).
GLARE-Edu sup ports three main educational tasks. For
each of them, we discuss GLARE-Edu’s educational im pact,
con sidering both its supervised and non-supervised use, and
com paring it with “traditional” learning (i. e., learning with
out an AI system sup port).
Task 1: Learning a CPG “per se”
The first step for learners is obviously to learn the con tent
of a general CPG, in depen den tly of its ap plication to spe
cific case studies. Notably, a CPG is usually a quite “flat”
text of hun dreds of pages, and, in “traditional” learning, the
teac her is left alone to organize its presen tation to learners,
while learners have to study such “flat” text with the on ly
sup port of teac her’s explanations (and possibly, teac her-
provided additional material). GLARE-Edu provides a nav
igation facility to sup port them. Notably, a CIG (i. e., the
com puter version of a CPG, as ac quired by GLARE-Edu)
can be roughly assimilated to a “con cep tual map” of the
knowledge expressed in the textual CPG (see, e. g., Fig. 3
in the following), organized at different levels of detail (see
the descrip tion of GLARE-Edu formalism in Sect.  3.2).
GLARE-Edu’s navigation facility sup ports the “explora
tion” of such a con cep tual map at different levels of detail
(top-down refinement met hodology), and can be exploited
by teac hers (in the supervised modality) as a sup port to
show and discuss the con tent of a CPG is a struc tured and
well-organized way, and by students (in the non-supervised
modality) to ac cess it in the same way.
Fig. 1  Exam ples of the two
different modalities of use of
GLARE-Edu: supervised (a) and
non-supervised (b)

1 3
2

Page 4 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
[15], struc tured in GLARE-Edu during the project’s first
year, offering learners a struc tured CPG knowledge ap proach
beyond flat textual recom men dations.
CIG Ac quisition Tool
GLARE-Edu utilizes GLARE’s ac quisition tool, initially
detailed in [9].
Tec hnical Aspects
In addition to a user-frien dly in terface for creating the hier
archical CPG graph (see Fig. 3) and en tering node descrip
tions, the tool in teracts with a medical on tology (in our
im plemen tation, SNOMED CT [16]) to stan dardize ter
minology. It also uses advan ced sym bolic AI tec hniques,
like tem poral reasoning, to en sure the con sisten cy of the
ac quired graph [17].
Case Study Ac quisition Tool
To ap ply CIGs to prac tical cases, we need case studies in
digital format. Our goal is to teach learners which ac tions to
take for specific cases, not how to perform them. Therefore,
virtual reality rep resen tation is un necessary and patients are
rep resen ted by data trac king clinical status chan ges.
Tec hnical Aspects
Case study creation is a key distin ction of GLARE-Edu
from GLARE. In GLARE, patient data are managed by an
external DBMS, with en tries added as new fin dings ap pear.
Con versely, GLARE-Edu requires “a priori” com plete case
studies to sup port simulations (Sect. 3.6 and 3.7). Our case
study ac quisition tool sup ports expert physicians in the
ac quisition: a grap hical in terface shows them the graph
modeling the CIG, and sup ports step-by-step navigation
along one (in the case of automated simulation) or more
GLARE-Edu: Architec ture and Main Features
In this Sec tion we present the main tec hnical features of
GLARE-Edu. We first show the general architec ture and
rep resen tation formalism, and then we present each one of
the com ponents of GLARE-Edu’s architec ture.
GLARE-Edu Architec ture
Figure 2 illustrates GLARE-Edu’s general architec ture. We
describe each com ponent in Sect. 3.3–3.7, first with a high-
level overview, then discussing key tec hnical challen ges,
in cluding adap ting GLARE for educational use in GLARE-
Edu. This con tribution may benefit ot hers working on CIG
decision sup port systems who are in terested in educational
ap plications (con sider, e. g., [6–8]). For clarity and con cise
ness, Fig. 2 omits each com ponent’s refined user in terface,
which we designed and tested in collaboration with physi
cians from our team, some of whom also serve as teac hers
in our experimen tal evaluations.
CIG Rep resen tation Formalism
In GLARE-Edu (as in GLARE), a CPG is rep resen ted
as a hierarchical graph with nodes as ac tions and arcs as
con trol flow, dic tating ac tion order. Nodes and arcs come
with descrip tive properties. GLARE differen tiates bet ween
atomic and com posite ac tions. Com posite ac tions, shown
as red oc tagonal nodes (e. g., “Assessment” in Fig. 3), are
sub-graphs, aiding hierarchical CPG formalization. Atomic
ac tions rep resent basic CPG steps, categorized in to four
types: Work ac tions (blue circles, e. g., “Excision of sen
tinel lymph node”), Data requests (green parallelograms,
e. g., “Report for staging TNM”), Decision ac tions (yel
low diamonds, e. g., “Locoregional staging”), and Con clu
sions (modeling the out put of decisions; oran ge trian gles,
e. g., “TIS”). Figure 3 shows the Italian CPG for melanoma
(released by the Associazione Italiana On cologia Medica)
Fig. 2  Architec ture of
GLARE-Edu

1 3
Page 5 of 15
2


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
CIG Automated Simulation Tool
The automated simulation tool uses a CIG and a case study
to show, step-by-step, how the CIG would guide ac tions
for the case. Users don’t make choices during this process.
For data requests, the tool displays required clinical data,
and for decisions, it highlights the correct choice based on
criteria and case data (pulled automatically from the stored
case). Figure 5 shows a simulation: grey bullets mark com
pleted ac tions (e. g., from “Assessment” to “Report for stag
ing TNM”), and a red bullet marks the current ac tion (e. g.,
“Evaluation of N”), with a pop-up showing ac tion details
like, in the exam ple, the decision tree modelling the deci
sion and the correct evaluation in it.
Tec hnical Aspects
Automated simulation uses GLARE’s execution mod
ule, advan cing step-by-step along the CIG path based on
patient data. Un like GLARE, where user-physicians can
override recom men dations, GLARE-Edu on ly shows CIG
recom men dations, with no op tion to override. Additionally,
GLARE-Edu operates on a pre-ac quired case study, rat her
than in terac ting with a DBMS of clinical records.
(for verification) paths of the given CIG, asking the experts
the data values for the case un der examination at each data
request node.
CIG Navigation Tool
GLARE-Edu provides an in terac tive tool to navigate the
hierarchical graph and show the descrip tion of nodes. For
exam ple, Fig.  4 illustrates the grap hical in terface for the
navigation of the “Evaluation of N” node. Sin ce it is a deci
sion node with a restric ted decision tree, learners can easily
un derstand the parameters in volved in making the decision
and view the struc ture of the decision tree it self by click
ing the “Show decision tree” but ton. The grap hical in terface
also provides, for each node, a descrip tion and additional
relevant in formation that en han ces the educational experi
en ce. Specifically, by selec ting “Show Details”, learners can
view the pop-up displayed in Fig. 4, where they have ac cess
to sup plemen tary media, such as images, videos or files,
through the correspon ding but ton.
Tec hnical Aspects
GLARE-Edu CIG navigation is a slight variation (due to
minor differen ces in the grap hical in terface) of GLARE’s
con sultation module [9]. Notably, given the hierarchical
rep resen tation of CIGs, the CIG navigation tool sup ports
the top-down refinement met hodology in learning CPG’s
con tents.
Fig. 3  The top level of melanoma CIG (GLARE-Edu grap hical in terface)

1 3
2

Page 6 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
Fig. 5  Automated simulation of the melanoma CIG on a case study (GLARE-Edu grap hical in terface). Notably, the rightmost part of the win dow
shows the case study values

Fig. 4  Navigation of the melanoma CIG (GLARE-Edu grap hical in terface)

1 3
Page 7 of 15
2


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
(i) First (Sect.  4.1) we propose a preliminary evaluation
we have already run. We have organized a lesson for
physicians focused on the melanoma CPG and selec ted
case studies in collaboration with Alessan dria Hospital.
The results provide valuable in sights in to the poten tial
of our ap proach;
(ii) Second (Sect. 4.2) we detail the plan for our final evalu
ation: at the end of the AI-LEAP project, we will run two
six-month courses to further evaluate — one designed
for medical students and anot her for physicians.
Preliminary Evaluation
The Alessan dria Hospital rec ruited 20 physicians, for a two-
hour lesson con sidering the melanoma CPG and selec ted
case studies. None of the physicians in the experiment had
prior specific knowledge about the Italian melanoma guide
line [15]. We present the results con cerning the learning
phase and the evaluation of GLARE-Edu, sin ce they pro
vide a hint of the poten tialities of GLARE-Edu.
The experiment was con duc ted by split ting the physi
cians in to two homogeneous classes, one adop ting GLARE-
Edu, and the ot her receiving traditional medical education.
Both classes had an hour and a half lesson, con cerning:
1. Specific Parts of the guideline, in cluding the N staging
decision.
2. The ap plication of (parts of) the guideline, and of N
staging, to specific cases.
For the con trol class, the lesson has been held traditionally,
while in the class using GLARE-Edu, the facilities described
in Sect. 3 have been exploited. Finally, both classes spent
the last 30  min to com pleting evaluation question naires
im plemen ted through Google Forms.
We asked the physicians a series of questions, regarding
different case studies, asking (i) which (guideline) ac tivities
should be performed, (ii) which data should be con sidered,
and (iii) N-staging decisions. For each question, different
CIG Verification Tool
Given a case study, GLARE-Edu lets learners prac tice
ap plying a CIG, verifying each step against the CIG’s rec
om men dations and offering explanations for discrepan cies.
For exam ple:

●
For data requests, GLARE-Edu asks the learner to
specify the required data and checks it against the CIG’s
data requirements;

●
For clinical decisions, GLARE-Edu presents the case
status and possible out comes, asking the learner to
choose. This an swer is com pared to the CIG’s decision
out come; if in correct, an explanation is provided.
Figure 6 illustrates an “Evaluation of N” decision exam ple,
where the learner’s choice of N3a differs from the correct
an swer, N2a, and the decision tree shows why. The green
nodes rep resent the tree nodes visited con sidering the data
of the case study, which lead to the correct an swer. The leaf
correspon ding to the learner’s an swer is colored in red.
Tec hnical Aspects
This verification facility is unique to GLARE-Edu. It bal
an ces giving learners freedom to make decisions with the
com plexity of pre-defining case studies and automatically
explaining differen ces from CIG recom men dations. Learn
ers progress step-by-step, choosing ac tions from a menu;
GLARE’s execution module then com pares each choice
with the CIG’s recom men dation, explaining any in con sis
ten cies (e. g., as shown in Fig. 5).
Evaluation of GLARE-Edu’s Educational
Ap proach
In this sec tion, we out line the evaluation of our ap proach in
two steps:
Fig. 6  The explanation provided
for the decision tree in ac tion
“Evaluation of N”, con sidering
the data in the case study (shown
in Fig. 5) and the learner’s
an swer

1 3
2

Page 8 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
established a detailed plan for GLARE-Edu’s evaluation.
In particular, the final six months of the AI-LEAP project
will be dedicated to an exten sive experimen tal assessment,
in which we aim to demonstrate both (i) the generalizability
and (ii) the poten tial of GLARE-Edu.
Regarding (i), we are collaborating with Prof. Luigi Cas
tello, associate professor of in ternal medicine at the Uni
versity of Eastern Piedmont and head of In ternal Medicine
Department 1 at Alessan dria Hospital, to ac quire a CPG
about dyslipidemia, and many case studies for it.
To demonstrate (ii), we are organizing two courses, each
one distributed in a six-month period of time (the last six
months of the AI-LEAP project):
(A) A course for physicians on Italian melanoma guideline
[15];
(B) A course for student in medicine on dyslipidemia based
on European Society of Cardiology guidelines [18].
We aim to en roll at least 50 students and 20 physicians.
The two courses are organized in a similar way. We will
split learners in to two homogeneous classes: one adop ting
GLARE-Edu and the ot her (the con trol group) un dergoing
traditional medical education based on the textual CPGs.
Both classes will at tend in-person lessons led by expert phy
sicians (in GLARE-Edu class, teac hers will take advan tage
of GLARE-Edu), and at-home exercises (the GLARE-Edu
learners will have the op portunity to adopt the system also
at home). The abstract schema of lessons is:

●
2 lessons on the CPG;

●
A first in-itinere evaluation test;

●
2 lessons on the CPG;

●
A second in-itinere evaluation test;

●
2 lessons on the CPG;

●
The final evaluation test.
The course for physician (A) will be organized in collabo
ration with Alessan dria Hospital, which is in the regional
register of ac credited providers for education sin ce 2012. It
will be ac credited as Con tinuous Medical Education (CME)
course, which are man datory for main taining professional
licen ses.
The course for student in medicine (B) will be organized
in collaboration with our university’s Master Degree in
Medicine and Surgery as an “At tivi tà didat tic he elet tive”
(ADE or elec tive educational ac tivities). ADE are educa
tional ac tivities designed to deepen specific knowledge and
skills, en han cing both preparation and training. They pro
vide to students (of the fourth and fifth years) op portunities
to explore topics beyond the core curriculum and promote
multidiscip linary ap proac hes.
an swers were proposed, and the physicians were asked to
choose one of them. Results are sum marized in Table 1.
Toget her with domain-expert teac hers, we have analyzed
these results and tried to in terpret them. The low percen tage
of correct an swers is probably due to several fac tors: (i) the
com plexity of the guideline, (ii) the fact that physicians had
no specific a-priori knowledge of it, sin ce the management
of melanoma patients is not carried on by General Prac ti
tioners, but by specialists, and (iii) the short time of the les
son. Notably, the adop tion of GLARE-Edu has im proved
the training results, especially regarding the ac tions to be
performed on patients, and the decision about N staging.
The p-value for the com prehen sive test is 0.348 (sin ce we
are in a con text of two dic hotomous nominal variables and
small sam ples we evaluated the p-value through Fisher’s
exact test). We are fully aware that this is not a statistically
relevant result, but we stron gly believe that the low statisti
cal significan ce is mostly due to (i) the limited num ber of
physicians (and of questions) and (ii) the very short time we
could devote to education.
We are con fident to ac hieve bet ter and significant results
in our future experimen tal evaluation at the end of the AI-
LEAP project (see Sect. 4.2).
We asked a set of questions exclusively to the GLARE-
Edu classes to evaluate the physicians’ percep tion of its
usefulness. Scores ran ged from 1 (“minimum”) to 5 (“maxi
mum”). The average values are shown in Table 2.
Notably, physicians found “medium” (3,33 is basically
a medium value on a scale of 1–5) the extra effort needed
to learn GLARE-Edu, and found it useful and “to be
recom men ded”.
Evaluation Plan (AI-LEAP Project)
The initial results are promising, but the evaluations con
duc ted are quite limited.
As discussed before, the develop ment of GLARE-Edu is
wit hin a two-year project, AI-LEAP [11], in which we have
Table 1  Percen tage of correct an swers
Ac tivities
Required data
N staging
Traditional
41%
77%
12.5%
GLARE-Edu
51%
81%
22%
Table 2  A general evaluation of GLARE-Edu. Scores are numeric val
ues (1,2,3,4,5), where 1 stands for “minimum” and 5 for “maximum”
Aver
agescore
Com plexity of training about GLARE-Edu rep resen tation
and use
3.33
Usefulness of GLARE-Edu
4
Would you recom mend the use of GLARE-Edu?
4.11
1 3
Page 9 of 15
2


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
virtual patient education im proved diagnostic performan ce
through deliberate prac tice [27].
Many of the above ap proac hes also in clude AI tec hniques.
In the area of medical AI, a large num ber of ap proac hes was
suc cessfully devoted to medical education. For in stan ce,
a recent survey [28] iden tifies many different perspec tives
for educational ap plications of AI: In telligent Tutoring Sys
tems, AI-assisted learner assessment, Chat Bot, Personalized
Learning Plat forms, Robot-Assisted Surgery Simulations,
En han ced anatomy education, AI tools to prepare ap plica
tions, AI-generated art (to en han ce visual storytelling for
patient en coun ters), mac hine learning for in tra-operative
video analysis to im prove patient care. Several ot her ap pli
cation con texts have been iden tified in [29, 30], where also
future perspec tives are con sidered.
Notably, a wide ran ge of ap plications has emerged
quite recen tly, due to the advan ces of research in the area
of Mac hine Learning (ML) and Deep Learning (DL) [31,
32]. In such a field, the rising of explanation tec hniques has
made ML and DL tec hniques more exploitable for educa
tion [33].
ML and DL have significan tly advan ced medical edu
cation ac ross multip le domains, such as image process
ing [34–36]. Such tec hnologies assist students through
advan ced and in terac tive 3D models [37], and in recog
nizing and diagnosing medical images such as X-rays, CT
scans, and MRIs, providing ac curate feedback [38]. These
systems are instrumen tal in teac hing students how to iden
tify subtle diagnostic clues.
ML and DL also play a crucial role in en han cing diag
nostic reasoning. Tools like Case B-Pro [39] use neural net
works com bined with case-based reasoning to help students
in put patient sym ptoms and receive diagnostic feedback,
im proving clinical skills through in terac tive, real-world
simulations. Virtual patient and digital twin systems offer
safe en viron ments for students to prac tice con sultations
and therapeutic procedures, make diagnostic decisions, and
receive in stant feedback [40]. Gamification plat forms [41]
further en gage students by adap ting learning challen ges
to their skill level, en han cing both clinical reasoning and
patient in terac tion.
Moreover, adap tive learning systems and In telligent
Tutoring Systems [42] tailor instruc tion to in dividual
learning needs, en suring targeted and efficient knowledge
ac quisition. AI-based assessments [43] provide objec tive
measures of student performan ce, helping educators iden
tify areas that need im provement.
In the very last years, generative AI ap proac hes have
added a new dimen sion to medical education, by simulat
ing patient en coun ters, an swering com plex medical ques
tions, and offering personalized feedback in real time [44].
Such AI models en han ce clinical reasoning, com munication
Notably, both courses need a specific ac creditation pro
cess before the en rollment phase can start3.
Furthermore, the AI-LEAP project man dates that our
ac tivities during the evaluation phase are con duc ted un der
the con stant supervision of the Bruno Kessler Foun dation
[20], serving as external evaluator.
Related Work
The area of in formatics for medical education is wide and
com plex, and many different surveys are reported in the lit
erature. In the following, we briefly propose a (necessarily
partial) overview of some of the main met hodologies and
ap plications, with specific focus on the ones more closely
related to our ap proach.
Virtual patients and simulation are certain ly one of the
areas in which In formatics has provided major con tribu
tions. Virtual patients are “in terac tive com puter simulations
of real-life clinical scenarios for health professions train
ing, education, or assessment” [21]. Virtual patients differ
in terms of com peten cies (e. g., clinical reasoning, patient
com munication skills, procedural and basic clinical skills)
and tec hnologies (e. g., multimedia system, con versational
charac ter, virtual world). The predominant class is the in ter
ac tive patient scenario followed by software simulations
and virtual stan dardized patients. Ot her forms of Virtual
patients are games, case presen tations, human stan dardized
patients, and high-fidelity manikins [22, 23].
Already in the 1980’s, Mc Dowell et al. evaluated the
out comes of simulation met hods in nursing education [24].
Recent analyses have shown that virtual patient simulation
im proved clinical reasoning abilities of medical students in
the con text of a traditional teac hing/learning en viron ment
[25], AI virtual patient scenarios were well ac cep ted by
students and demonstrated significant promise as a com
plemen tary simulation-based learning modality [26], and
3  Con cerning CME courses, the ac creditation process in volves a
set of steps: The course design, based on educational needs and clear
objec tives; The con tent evaluation, reviewed by a scien tific training
com mit tee, which will work ac cording to the Regional Coun cil of
Decem ber 20, 2019, No. 21–778; The ac creditation ap plication and
evaluation, submit ted to the ac crediting body (i. e. Piedmont Region). In
the case of positive final evaluation, the course is ac credited and pub
lished on regional website [19]. Moreover, the quality of the CME
courses is monitored in-itinere through event evaluations and the UNI
EN ISO 9001:2015 quality system, which guaran tees an ap prop riate
organizational management system based on ISO policies and related
procedures. Con cerning ADE courses, course proposals must be evalu
ated by the President and Vice-president of the Degree program based
on the con tents quality, the objec tives, the prerequisites required for an
effec tive participation. ADE have to be scheduled to avoid any overlap
with curricular ac tivities. Finally, the course’s progress will be closely
monitored to en sure it aligns with the original proposal in terms of
quality and relevan ce.
1 3
2

Page 10 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
[5], highlighting the need for novel and more powerful
ap proac hes. Ac tually, though the AIM literature proposes
a quite large num ber of domain-in depen dent CIG sys
tems (see, e. g., the surveys [6–8]), such systems have been
designed to provide decision sup port to physicians.
Few ap proac hes in CIG literature specifically target
educational tasks. The first proposal, men tioned in [55],
suggests using a multipurpose CIG execution en gine for edu
cation, though its architec ture is too general to address spe
cific educational tasks. More recen tly, AIM tools have been
developed for training physicians on clinical guidelines.
For in stan ce, Real et al. [56] used decision tables based on
guidelines for arterial hyperten sion to train residents, com
paring their decisions with those of the tables. Riaño et al.
[57] describe Shock-Instruc tor, a web-based tool that helps
hospital residents learn about shock management through
a knowledge base and case descrip tions. Uribe-Ocam po et
al. [58] in troduced SIM-CIG, a video game for simulating
an tenatal healthcare scenarios and evaluating decision-mak
ing based on obstet ric guidelines. Notably, the ap proac hes
in [56–58] are devoted to a specific domain. GLARE-Edu is
the on ly CIG-based educational system which.
1. Is domain in depen dent.
2. Provides verification/testing facilities.
Feature (1) grants that, with GLARE-Edu, education con
cerning different diseases can be homogeneously per
formed, adop ting the same “con cep tual map” rep resen tation
and educational facilities. On the ot her hand, the educational
im pact of feature (2) has been already discussed in Sect. 2
above. Thus, GLARE-Edu con stitutes a step forward in the
panorama of CIG-based medical education.
The on ly evaluation of CIG-based educational system is
reported in [57]. The study in [57] com pares the two groups
of learners (experimen tal and con trol) in terms of: (i) guide
line adheren ce, (ii) ac curacy in dose prescrip tions, (iii) sur
vival rate post-in terven tion, and (iv) frailty of the surviving
cases. In light of current research, we can therefore com pare
[57] with our ap proach solely on aspect (i) (see Sect. 4.1),
while leaving the ot her com parisons for future trials (see
Sect. 4.2). Specifically, [57] reports a statistically significant
im provement (p-value = 0.01) of 2% in guideline adheren ce.
Our preliminary experiment, however, in dicates a 10%
im provement in adheren ce related to ac tivity-based ac tions,
a 4% im provement in data requests, and a 9.5% im prove
ment in staging-related decisions (i. e., clinical decisions),
leading to an average im provement of at least 7–8%, with
out ac coun ting for the im balan ce in the num ber of ac tions
ac ross these types. Although the performan ce ac hieved with
GLARE-Edu can not be deemed statistically significant due
to the limited num ber of learners in volved, these fin dings
skills, and provide ac cessible, flexible learning solutions
that are revolutionizing medical education.
Additional descrip tions of the use of ML and DL for
medical education can be found in the surveys [29, 45].
Many ot her AI educational systems rely on sym bolic AI
met hodologies, which are particularly suited to model logi
cal in feren ces on com positional and struc tured rep resen ta
tions of explicit knowledge [10]. The mere availability of
explicit knowledge (as, for exam ple, in medical on tologies
like SNOMED CT and UMLS) has proven effec tive in
im proving the students’ critical thin king skills [46].
Moving to more com plex sym bolic AI tec hniques, one
of the most famous and typical ap plications of sym bolic AI
met hodologies to medicine is the so called expert systems
[47], addressing the problem of modeling the diagnostic
and/or therapeutic treat ment of specific diseases based on
an explicit sym bolic rep resen tation of experts’ knowledge.
Most of them have also been used for educational purposes,
and, later, have evolved in to task-specific educational tools.
For in stan ce, the famous MYCIN system was based on a
knowledge base of experien tial rules (modeled as produc
tion rules) and used bac kward chaining reasoning to sup port
diagnosis and treat ment of bac terial in fec tions [48]. It then
evolved in to the educational systems NEOMYCIN [49] and
GUIDON [50].
GIDEON [51] is main ly an expert system for in fec tious
diseases, but it can also be used as a medical education tool.
Medical students can use the system to simulate real-world
cases and test their diagnostic skills. It uses a rule-based
Bayesian reasoning ap proach.
DXplain [52] is an expert system designed to suggest a
list of diseases that are associated with a set of clinical find
ings en tered by a health profession student or prac titioner
widely adop ted also in education.
IN TERNIST-I [53] was designed to provide com puter-
assisted diagnosis in general in ternal medicine by at tempt
ing to model the reasoning of clinicians. It in volves a
com plex diagnostic algorithm, based on explicit knowledge
in cluding a hierarchy of disease categories and a heteroge
neous set of properties. The Com puter-based Patient Case
Simulator project was built on top of IN TERNIST-I to pro
vide a tool for teac hing diagnosis to medical students [54].
The suc cess of expert-system-based ap proac hes in
medical education has been relatively limited, largely due
to problems in extrac ting expert knowledge and iden tify
ing key eviden ce-based prac tices for students. However,
such limitations can be addressed with ap proac hes based
on com puterized clinical guidelines (CIGs), as they exploit
widely available eviden ce-based clinical prac tice guidelines
(CPGs). However, un til now, studies com paring the effect
of digital education on CPGs have shown on ly a moder
ate differen ce in favor of digital education in terven tion
1 3
Page 11 of 15
2


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2

●
A struc tured sym bolic rep resen tation of CPGs at mul
tip le levels of detail, and a navigation facility to explore
it,

●
The automatic adap tation of CPGs to case studies (i. e.,
automatic focusing on the part of the CPG needed for
the case study at hand, through the automated simula
tion facility), and.

●
A (self) verification facility.
The main original aspects of GLARE-Edu are the fact that
it is (to the best of our knowledge) the first CIG-based edu
cational system that.

●
Is domain-in depen dent.

●
Provides verification and self-verification facilities.
Additionally, two major tec hnical con tributions of our
ap proach are:

●
The definition and descrip tion of a com prehen sive ar
chitec ture that in tegrates CPG ac quisition, case study
ac quisition, and the navigation, automated simulation
and verification facilities.

●
The discussion about the exten sions needed in order to
move from a “traditional” CIG-based decision sup port
system to an educational system (providing the above
facilities).
In the short term, future work con cerns main ly the large-
scale experimen tal evaluation discussed in Sect. 4.2.
From the tec hnical point of view, in our long-term
research plan, we en vision two main future develop ments.
First of all, we plan to en han ce our facility to ac quire case
studies with mac hine learning or generative AI tec hniques,
in order to sup port the refinement and personalization of
case studies on the basis of the traces provided by the ap pli
cation of the verification facility. Second, anot her significant
future exten sion of GLARE-Edu will address excep tional
patients, such as comorbid patients (i. e., patients suffering
from two or more illnesses) [63]. Treating such patients
presents a dual challen ge for the physician, who must be
capable of adhering to multip le guidelines simultaneously
while detec ting and managing poten tial in terac tions.
Building on our previous work con cerning the man
agement of comorbid patients [64, 65], our objec tive is to
extend GLARE-Edu along several dimen sions:

●
First, GLARE-Edu must be equip ped to han dle case
studies rep resen ting comorbid patients, in cluding all the
ac tions that modify CIGs to manage in terac tions.

●
The automated simulation tool must be exten ded to
show learners which parts of the different CIGs in teract,
nonet heless rep resent an in teresting effect that will require
further verification through the more exten sive trial cur
ren tly un derway wit hin the AI-LEAP project.
Notably, to the best of our knowledge, all the CIG-based
ap proac hes in the AIM literature are sym bolic ap proac hes,
based on an explicit rep resen tation of medical knowledge.
This solution seems quite natural, sin ce CPGs are “golden
stan dards” that must be elaborated, specified and, above
all, certified by dedicated teams of medical experts (these
requirements are, e. g., explicit ly stated in the Italian law
[59]). Given the availability (in textual CPGs) of such high-
quality knowledge, the adop tion of (explicit) knowledge
rep resen tation and reasoning tec hniques looks natural and
ap prop riate, sin ce “A cen tral tenet of the sym bolic paradigm
is that in telligen ce results from the manipulation of abstract
com positional rep resen tations” [10]. In deed, mac hine learn
ing tec hniques can be used to discover from data the ac tual
medical procedures adop ted to manage specific diseases.
In particular, a specific area of AI, termed process mining,
has (among the ot her) the specific task of discovering pro
cess models from data (more precisely, from the traces of
the executions of processes) [60]. We are ac tive in such an
area of research [61, 62], but it is im portant to point out that
the process models discovered by process mining con sid
ering the traces of ac tivities performed on patients are not
(officially recognized) clinical guidelines, sin ce they may
con tain errors and deviations from the “golden stan dard”.
In deed, com paring the discovered process models with the
CPG “golden stan dard” is an im portant ac tivity, to iden tify
deviations (which may be eit her due to errors in the exe
cution of CPGs, or suggest new prac tices that experts can
evaluate to possibly up date the CPG golden stan dard) [60].
In general, we stron gly believe that the sym bolic and
mac hine learning met hodologies are highly com plemen tary
(con sider, e. g., [10]), and can be fruit fully in tegrated in the
CPG con text. For in stan ce, in our future work (see Sect. 6),
we en vision adop ting mac hine learning tec hniques to refine
and personalize case studies.
Con clusions and Future Works
In this paper, we have described GLARE-Edu, a sym bolic
AI ap proach proposing an explicit and struc tured rep re
sen tation of CPGs and navigation, automated simulation
and verification facilities to sup port medical education.
GLARE-Edu educational im pact is twofold, sin ce it may
sup port teac hers both teac hers’ ac tivities (supervised use
of the system) and learners’ autonomous study, providing
them.
1 3
2

Page 12 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
Referen ces
1.
Field MJ, Lohr KN (1990) Clinical Prac tice Guidelines: Direc
tions for a New Program. National Academies Press (US), Wash
in gton (DC)
2.
GIN - Home Page. In: GIN. https://g-i-n. net/. Ac cessed 16 Sep
2024
3.
Yi M, Hisham F, Nadir U, Dave L, Shi V, Christen sen R, Anv
ery N, Almidani L, Amer Y, Archer R, Huessin H, Mcfarlane E,
Mokrane S, Morgan R, de Mortier C, Nix M, A. G. R, Raynor
M, Cahn B, Alam M (2023) Needs-Gap Assessment of Clinical
Prac tice Guidelines in Medical Education: A Qualitative Analysis
4.
Zainal H, Tan JK, Xiaohui X, Thum boo J, Yong FK (2023) Clini
cal in formatics training in medical school education curricula: a
scoping review. J Am Med In form Assoc 30:604–616. https://doi
. org/10.1093/jamia/ocac245
5.
Tudor Car L, Soong A, Kyaw BM, Chua KL, Low-Beer N,
Majeed A (2019) Health professions digital education on clinical
prac tice guidelines: a systematic review by Digital Health Educa
tion collaboration. BMC Medicine 17:139. https://doi. org/10.118
6/s12916-019-1370-1
6.
Peleg M, Tu S, Bury J, Cic carese P, Fox J, Greenes RA, Hall
R, Johnson PD, Jones N, Kumar A, Miksch S, Quaglini S, Sey
fang A, Shortliffe EH, Stefanelli M (2003) Com paring com puter-
in terpretable guideline models: a case-study ap proach. J Am Med
In form Assoc 10:52–68. https://doi. org/10.1197/jamia. m1135
7.
Peleg M (2013) Com puter-in terpretable clinical guidelines: a
met hodological review. J Biomed In form 46:744–763. https://doi
. org/10.1016/j. jbi.2013.06.009
8.
García-García JA, Carrero M, Escalona MJ, Lizcano D (2024)
Evaluation of clinical prac tice guideline-derived clinical decision
sup port systems using a novel quality model. J Biomed In form
149:104573. https://doi. org/10.1016/j. jbi.2023.104573
9.
Teren ziani P, Molino G, Torchio M (2001) A modular ap proach
for rep resen ting and executing clinical guidelines. Artif In tell
Med 23:249–276
10. Garnelo M, Shanahan M (2019) Recon ciling deep learning with
sym bolic artificial in telligen ce: rep resen ting objects and rela
tions. Current Opinion in Behavioral Scien ces 29:17–23. https://d
oi. org/10.1016/j. cobeha.2018.12.010
11. Baldoni M, Baroglio C, Bot trighi A, Buc ciarelli M, Capec chi S,
Gan dolfi E, Gena C, Ia nì F, Maren go E, Maroc co D, Micalizio R,
Piovesan L, Pon ticorvo M, Rapp A, Roveta A, Teren ziani P, Ugo
F (2023) Fostering Awareness and Personalization of Learning
Artificial In telligen ce. pp 449–454
12. Teren ziani P, Mon tani S, Bot trighi A, Molino G, Torchio M
(2008) Ap plying artificial in telligen ce to clinical guidelines: the
GLARE ap proach. Stud Health Tec hnol In form 139:273–282
13. Piovesan L, Teren ziani P, Molino G (2018) GLARE-SSCPM:
An In telligent System to Sup port the Treat ment of Comorbid
Patients. IEEE In telligent Systems 33:37–46. https://doi. org/10.
1109/MIS.2018.2886697
14. Demo GLARE-Edu. https://drive. google. com/drive/folders/1eik
_sj Qp Ln UWew9ov WJ_1DRauxktc TYh. Ac cessed 29 Oct 2024
15. Associazione Italiana On cologia Medica LG AIOM melanoma. h
ttps://www. aiom. it/wp-con tent/up loads/2020/10/2020_LG_AIO
M_Melanoma. pdf. Ac cessed 20 Nov 2023
16. In ternational Health Terminology Stan dards Develop ment
Organisation SNOMED Clinical Terms. http://www. ihtsdo. org/s
nomed-ct. Ac cessed 23 Jan 2024
17. An selma L, Teren ziani P, Mon tani S, Bot trighi A (2006) Towards
a com prehen sive treat ment of repetitions, periodicity and tem po
ral constraints in clinical guidelines. Artif In tell Med 38:171–195.
https://doi. org/10.1016/j. artmed.2006.03.007
how to classify in terac tions (e. g., in terac tions that en
han ce treat ment, ones that cause toxicity), and how to
ap ply in terac tion management strategies.

●
The verification tool must be exten ded to enable learners
to focus on different sec tions of the two CIGs and must
ask them to iden tify and classify present in terac tions.
The module will then ask learners to manage these in
terac tions by correc tly ap plying possible management
ap proac hes. Such exten sion is challen ging, requiring
reasoning con cerning various knowledge sources (e. g.,
pharmacological, basic medical knowledge, on tological
knowledge).
Ac knowledgements  This research has been partially sup ported by the
Universi tà del Piemon te Orien tale and by Fon dazione Com pagnia di
San Paolo and Fon dazione CDP, Ban do In telligen za Artificiale 2, AI-
LEAP project. Erica Raina is a Ph D student en rolled in the National
Ph D program in Artificial In telligen ce, XXXIX cyc le, course on
Health and life scien ces, organized by Universi tà Cam pus Bio-Medico
di Roma.
Aut hor Con tributions  Con cep tualization, A. B., F. G., L. P., A. R. and
P. T.; met hodology, A. B., M. G., F. G., S. N., L. P., E. R., A. R. and P. T.;
software, A. B., S. N., L. P. and E. R.; validation, A. B., M. G., F. G., S. N.,
L. P., E. R., A. R. and P. T.; in vestigation, A. B., M. G., F. G., L. P., A. R. and
P. T.; resources, A. M. and A. R.; data curation, A. B., M. G., F. G., L. P.
and P. T.; writing—original draft preparation, A. B., F. G. and P. T.; writ
ing – review & editing, A. B., L. P, E. R. and P. T.; visualization, S. N.,
L. P. and E. R.; supervision, P. T.; project administration, A. M. and A. R.;
fun ding ac quisition, P. T. All aut hors have read and agreed to the pub
lished version of the manuscript.
Fun ding  Open ac cess fun ding provided by Universi tà degli Studi
del Piemon te Orien tale Amedeo Avogrado wit hin the CRUI-CARE
Agreement.
This research has been partially sup ported by the Universi tà del
Piemon te Orien tale, and by Fon dazione Com pagnia di San Paolo and
Fon dazione CDP, Ban do In telligen za Artificiale 2, AI-LEAP project.
Data Availability  The data that sup port the fin dings of this study are
available from the correspon ding aut hor upon reasonable request.
Dec larations
Com peting In terests  The aut hors dec lare no com peting in terests.
Open Ac cess  This artic le is licen sed un der a Creative Com mons
At tribution 4.0 In ternational Licen se, which permits use, sharing,
adap tation, distribution and rep roduc tion in any medium or format,
as long as you give ap prop riate credit to the original aut hor(s) and the
source, provide a link to the Creative Com mons licen ce, and in dicate
if chan ges were made. The images or ot her third party material in this
artic le are in cluded in the artic le’s Creative Com mons licen ce, un less
in dicated ot herwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not
in cluded in the artic le’s Creative Com mons licen ce and your in ten ded
use is not permit ted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permit ted
use, you will need to obtain permission direc tly from the copyright
holder. To view a copy of this licen ce, visit http://creativecom mons. o
rg/licen ses/by/4.0/.
1 3
Page 13 of 15
2


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
33. Ali S, Akhlaq F, Im ran AS, Kastrati Z, Daudpota SM, Moosa M
(2023) The en lightening role of explainable artificial in telligen ce
in medical & healthcare domains: A systematic literature review.
Com puters in Biology and Medicine 166:107555. https://doi. org/
10.1016/j. com pbiomed.2023.107555
34. Calisto FM, Nunes N, Nascimen to JC (2022) Modeling adop tion
of in telligent agents in medical imaging. In ternational Journal of
Human-Com puter Studies 168:102922. https://doi. org/10.1016/j.
ijhcs.2022.102922
35. Bradshaw TJ, Huemann Z, Hu J, Rahmim A (2023) A Guide to
Cross-Validation for Artificial In telligen ce in Medical Imaging.
Radiology: Artificial In telligen ce 5: e220232. https://doi. org/10.1
148/ryai.220232
36. Diogo P, Morais M, Calisto FM, San tiago C, Aleluia C, Nasci
men to JC (2023) Weakly-Supervised Diagnosis and Detec tion of
Breast Can cer Using Deep Multip le In stan ce Learning. In: 2023
IEEE 20th In ternational Sym posium on Biomedical Imaging
(ISBI). pp 1–4
37. Fajrian ti ED, Sukaridhoto S, Rasyid MUHA, Suwito BE, Budi
arti RPN, Hafidz IAA, Sat rio NA, Haz AL (2022) Ap plication of
Augmen ted In telligen ce Tec hnology with Human Body Trac king
for Human Anatomy Education. IJIET 12:476–484. https://doi. or
g/10.18178/ijiet.2022.12.6.1644
38. Aldeman NLS, De Sá Urtiga Aita KM, Mac hado VP, Da Mata
Sousa LCD, Coelho AGB, Da Silva AS, Da Silva Men des AP, De
Oliveira Neres FJ, Do Mon te SJH (2021) Smartpathk: a plat form
for teac hing glomerulopat hies using mac hine learning. BMC
Med Educ 21:248. https://doi. org/10.1186/s12909-021-02680-1
39. Peter H, Goodridge W (2004) In tegrating Two Artificial In telli
gen ce Theories in a Medical Diagnosis Ap plication. In: Bramer
M, Devedzic V (eds) Artificial In telligen ce Ap plications and
In novations. Sprin ger US, Boston, MA, pp 11–23
40. Wang M, Sun Z, Jia M, Wang Y, Wang H, Zhu X, Chen L, Ji H
(2022) In telligent virtual case learning system based on real med
ical records and natural lan guage processing. BMC Med In form
Decis Mak 22:60. https://doi. org/10.1186/s12911-022-01797-7
41. Mc Coy L, Lewis JH, Dalton D (2016) Gamification and Multi
media for Medical Education: A Landscape Review. J Am Osteo
path Assoc 116:22–34. https://doi. org/10.7556/jaoa.2016.003
42. Nakawala H, Ferrigno G, De Momi E (2018) Develop ment of
an in telligent surgical training system for Thoracen tesis. Artificial
In telligen ce in Medicine 84:50–63. https://doi. org/10.1016/j. artm
ed.2017.10.004
43. Yilmaz R, Win kler-Schwartz A, Mirchi N, Reich A, Christie S,
Tran DH, Ledwos N, Fazlollahi AM, San taguida C, Sabbagh AJ,
Bajunaid K, Del Maestro R (2022) Con tinuous monitoring of sur
gical bimanual expertise using deep neural net works in virtual
reality simulation. npj Digit Med 5:54. https://doi. org/10.1038/s4
1746-022-00596-8
44. Hisey R, Camire D, Erb J, Howes D, Fic htin ger G, Un gi T (2022)
System for Cen tral Venous Cat heterization Training Using Com
puter Vision-Based Workflow Feedback. IEEE Trans Biomed Eng
69:1630–1638. https://doi. org/10.1109/TBME.2021.3124422
45. Zhang W, Cai M, Lee HJ, Evans R, Zhu C, Ming C (2024) AI in
Medical Education: Global situation, effects and challen ges. Educ
Inf Tec hnol 29:4611–4633. https://doi. org/10.1007/s10639-023-1
2009-8
46. Chang E, Mostafa J (2021) The use of SNOMED CT, 2013–2020:
a literature review. Journal of the American Medical In formatics
Association 28:2017–2026. https://doi. org/10.1093/jamia/ocab08
4
47. Zhou L, Sordo M (2021) Chap. 5 - Expert systems in medicine.
In: Xing L, Giger ML, Min JK (eds) Artificial In telligen ce in
Medicine. Academic Press, pp 75–100
18. 2021 ESC Guidelines on cardiovascular disease preven tion in
clinical prac tice. https://www. escardio. org/Guidelines/Clinica
l-Prac tice-Guidelines/CVD-Preven tion-Guidelines. Ac cessed 29
Oct 2024
19. ECM PIEMON TE. https://www. formazionesanitapiemon te. it/jsp
/in dex. jsp. Ac cessed 29 Oct 2024
20. Fon dazione Bruno Kessler. In: FBK. https://www. fbk. eu/it/.
Ac cessed 29 Oct 2024
21. Kononowicz AA, Woodham LA, Edelbring S, Stat hakarou N,
Davies D, Saxena N, Tudor Car L, Carlstedt-Duke J, Car J, Zary
N (2019) Virtual Patient Simulations in Health Professions Edu
cation: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis by the Digital
Health Education Collaboration. J Med In ternet Res 21: e14676.
https://doi. org/10.2196/14676
22. Gellner C, Wit te A-K, Win kler T (2023) Design and Develop ment
of Virtual Patients for Healthcare Education: State of the Art and
Research
23. Kononowicz AA, Zary N, Edelbring S, Corral J, Hege I (2015)
Virtual patients - what are we talking about? A framework to clas
sify the meanings of the term in healthcare education. BMC Med
Educ 15:11. https://doi. org/10.1186/s12909-015-0296-3
24. Mc Dowell BJ, Nardini DL, Negley SA, White JE (1984) Evaluat
ing Clinical Performan ce Using Simulated Patients. J Nurs Educ
23:37–39. https://doi. org/10.3928/0148-4834-19840101-11
25. Aghili R, Kham seh ME, Taghavinia M, Malek M, Emami Z,
Baradaran HR, Mafinejad MK (2012) Virtual patient simulation:
Promotion of clinical reasoning abilities of medical students.
Knowledge Management & E-Learning: An In ternational Journal
4:518–527
26. Mat tei LD, Morato MQ, Sidhu V, Gautam N, Men don ca CT, Tsai
A, Ham mer M, Creighton-Wong L, Azzam A (2024) Are Artificial
In telligen ce Virtual Simulated Patients (AI-VSP) a Valid Teach
ing Modality for Health Professional Students? Clinical Simula
tion In Nursing 92:. https://doi. org/10.1016/j. ecns.2024.101536
27. Kot wal S, Fanai M, Fu W, Wang Z, Bery AK, Om ron R, Tevzadze
N, Gold D, Garibaldi BT, Wright SM, Newman-Toker DE (2021)
Real-world virtual patient simulation to im prove diagnostic per
forman ce through deliberate prac tice: a prospec tive quasi-exper
imen tal study. Real-world virtual patient simulation to im prove
diagnostic performan ce through deliberate prac tice: a prospec tive
quasi-experimen tal study 8:489
28. Gordon M, Daniel M, Ajiboye A, Uraiby H, Xu NY, Bartlett
R, Han son J, Haas M, Spadafore M, Grafton-Clarke C, Gasiea
RY, Mic hie C, Corral J, Kwan B, Dolmans D, Tham masit boon
S (2024) A scoping review of artificial in telligen ce in medical
education: BEME Guide No. 84. Medical Teac her 46:446–470.
https://doi. org/10.1080/0142159X.2024.2314198
29. Narayanan S, Ramakrishnan R, Durairaj E, Das A, Narayanan S,
Ramakrishnan R, Durairaj E, Das A (2023) Artificial In telligen ce
Revolutionizing the Field of Medical Education. Cureus 15:.
https://doi. org/10.7759/cureus.49604
30. Mir MM, Mir GM, Raina NT, Mir SM, Mir SM, Miskeen E,
Alharthi MH, Alam ri MMS (2023) Ap plication of Artificial
In telligen ce in Medical Education: Current Scenario and Future
Perspec tives. Journal of Advan ces in Medical Education & Pro
fessionalism 11:133. https://doi. org/10.30476/JAMP.2023.98655
.1803
31. Blease C, Kharko A, Bernstein M, Bradley C, Houston M, Walsh
I, Hägglund M, Des Roc hes C, Mandl KD (2022) Mac hine learn
ing in medical education: a survey of the experien ces and opin
ions of medical students in Ireland. BMJ Health Care In form
29: e100480. https://doi. org/10.1136/bmjhci-2021-100480
32. Kolac halama VB, Garg PS (2018) Mac hine learning and medical
education. npj Digital Med 1:1–3. https://doi. org/10.1038/s4174
6-018-0061-1
1 3
2

Page 14 of 15


Journal of Medical Systems (2025) 49:2
e-learning tool. Int J Med In form 113:49–55. https://doi. org/10.1
016/j. ijmedinf.2018.02.006
58. Uribe-Ocam po S, Torres EA, Luna IF, Florez-Aran go JF, Smith
JW (2019) SIM-CIG: A Serious Game to Prac tice and Im prove
Clinical Guidelines Adop tion Based on Com puter-In terpretable
Guidelines. Stud Health Tec hnol In form 264:1997–1998. https://
doi. org/10.3233/SHTI190753
59. Gazzet ta Ufficiale. https://www. gazzet taufficiale. it/eli/id/2017/03
/17/17G00041/sg. Ac cessed 9 Nov 2024
60. Process Mining Manifesto - IEEE Task Force on Process Min
ing. https://www. tf-pm. org/resources/manifesto. Ac cessed 9 Nov
2024
61. Bot trighi A, Canen si L, Leonardi G, Mon tani S, Teren ziani P
(2018) In terac tive mining and ret rieval from process traces.
Expert Systems with Ap plications 110:62–79. https://doi. org/10
.1016/j. eswa.2018.05.041
62. Bot trighi A, Guazzone M, Leonardi G, Mon tani S, Striani M,
Teren ziani P (2022) In tegrating ISA and Part-of Domain Knowl
edge in to Process Model Discovery. Future In ternet 14:357.
https://doi. org/10.3390/fi14120357
63. Van Woen sel W, Tu SW, Mic halowski W, Sibte Raza Abidi S,
Abidi S, Alon so J-R, Bot trighi A, Carrier M, Edry R, Hoc hberg
I, Rao M, Kin gwell S, Kogan A, Marcos M, Martí nez Salvador
B, Mic halowski M, Piovesan L, Riaño D, Teren ziani P, Wilk S,
Peleg M (2023) A com munity-of-prac tice-based evaluation meth
odology for knowledge in ten sive com putational met hods and its
ap plication to multimorbidity decision sup port. J Biomed In form
142:104395. https://doi. org/10.1016/j. jbi.2023.104395
64. Piovesan L, Molino G, Teren ziani P (2015) Sup porting multi-
level user-driven detec tion of guideline in terac tions. pp 413–422
65. Piovesan L, Teren ziani P, Theseider Dup ré D (2020) Con for
man ce analysis for comorbid patients in An swer Set Program
ming. J Biomed In form 103:103377. https://doi. org/10.1016/j. jbi
.2020.103377
Publisher’s Note  Sprin ger Nature remains neut ral with regard to juris
dic tional claims in published maps and in stitutional affiliations.
48. Shortliffe EH (1977) Mycin: A Knowledge-Based Com puter Pro
gram Ap plied to In fec tious Diseases. Proc An nu Symp Com put
Appl Med Care 66–69
49. Clan cey WJ, Let sin ger R (1981) NEOMYCIN: recon figuring
a rule-based expert system for ap plication to teac hing. In: Pro
ceedings of the 7th in ternational joint con feren ce on Artificial
in telligen ce - Volume 2. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc., San
Fran cisco, CA, USA, pp 829–836
50. Clan cey WJ (1984) Use of MYCIN’s rules for tutoring. In: Rule-
Based Expert Systems. Addison-Wesley, Reading. pp 464–489
51. Yu VL, Edberg SC (2005) Global In fec tious Diseases and Epi
demiology Net work (GIDEON): A World Wide Web-Based
Program for Diagnosis and In formatics in In fec tious Diseases.
Clinical In fec tious Diseases 40:123–126. https://doi. org/10.10
86/426549
52. Hoffer EP, Feldman MJ, Kim RJ, Famigliet ti KT, Barnett GO
(2005) DXplain: Pat terns of Use of a Mature Expert System.
AMIA An nual Sym posium Proceedings 2005:321
53. Pop le Jr HE (1976) Presen tation of the IN TERNIST system. In:
Proceedings of the AIM workshop, rut gers research resource on
com puters in biomedicine, rut gers university (june 1976)
54. Chin HL, Cooper GF (1989) Case-based tutoring from a medical
knowledge base. Com puter Met hods and Programs in Biomedi
cine 30:185–198. https://doi. org/10.1016/0169-2607(89)90071-0
55. Boxwala AA, Greenes RA, Deibel SR (1999) Architec ture for
a multipurpose guideline execution en gine. Proc AMIA Symp
701–705
56. Real F, Riaño D, Alon so JR (2014) Training Residents in the
Ap plication of Clinical Guidelines for Differen tial Diagnosis of
the Most Frequent Causes of Arterial Hyperten sion with Deci
sion Tables. In: Miksch S, Riaño D, Teije A ten (eds) Knowledge
Rep resen tation for Health Care – 6th In ternational Workshop,
KR4HC 2014, Held as Part of the Vien na Sum mer of Logic, VSL
2014, Vien na, Austria, July 21, 2014, Revised Selec ted Papers.
Sprin ger, pp 147–159
57. Riaño D, Real F, Alon so JR (2018) Im proving resident’s skills
in the management of circulatory shock with a knowledge-based
1 3
Page 15 of 15
2